slow
4dq3s0
Excel 2016 'Save As' to large directory very slow

Apologies if this is the wrong place to ask about this type of issue, however, I have a number of clients who are having an issue with Excel 2016.  When they open an Excel file from a directory that has a large number of files in it, the file opens promptly, however, when using the 'save as' function, Excel freezes for up to 2 minutes before allowing the file to be saved.

If I break up the directory into sub-folders then the issue disappears so it's clearly related to the number of files in a directory, however, this only seems to be happening for users with Excel 2016; previous versions are fine.

Other office applications don't seem to be affected, hence me posting in an Excel forum.

Any thoughts?


-------------
How many files do you consider large?

Is this happening with just one Excel file or all Excel files?

Are these files hosted on a fileserver or shared from a user desktop?

I'm using 2016 as well and can try to recreate the issue to see if it is systemic or localized.

As well, probably worth noting which version of Excel and if there are any installed updates to it.
-------------
Does it happen if the huge directory is stored on a local drive instead? (Without breaking it up into small subfolders) If not, the issue is on the server and/or network.
-------------
The file numbers vary but in each case it's >100 but no more than around 300-400.
All Excel files in the directories are affected.
The files are hosted on a fileserver on a gigabit network.  The server is running RAID10 comprising 8 600GB SAS disks.
In terms of recreating the issue - If I create a new folder and move one of the files into it, the issue doesn't occur.  Put it back in with the other files then 'Save As' hangs for a few minutes.

My workaround for this has been to break up the directories into sub folders for the time being as that makes the issue disappear.  As I said though, this only happens to users running Excel 2016 - 2013 and below don't seem to have the problem.

The Excel Version is: Excel 2016 MSO (16.0.6701.1013) 32-bit

Thanks
-------------
To be honest, I've not tried that.  I'll have a go later and report back.

-edit.  Copied one of the problematic directories to a users local machine and the issue persists!
-------------
That's a lot of great information. I'll do a couple of tests myself to recreate the situation as best I can.

We have a server I can use which is comparable.

Just drafted a script to create 400 Excel workbooks in a folder. I'm using 2016 16.0.4266.1001 64-Bit

Admittedly, the files are all 8 kb, but saving doesn't take any more time than before.

We're actually connecting to our server in a Data Centre, with a private 100 megabit connection. 

I doubled the number of files in the directory and no hit to performance. I'm going to be installing an update for Excel shortly.
-------------
Thank you, I appreciate the help on this!
-------------
No impact from the update. I think the problem may not be a network issue, or necessary a file count problem, but perhaps a problem with a specific file/file name.

I'm stretching here, but with 900 files in a directory, there is no reflection of the issue you described.

Is it in a specific path?
-------------
I don't think it's a network issue as I have copied an entire directory to a users' local desktop and replicated the issue.

I also don't think it's a file or file name issue as it affects every single Excel file in a directory.  And I have multiple users experiencing the issue on different systems entirely, just to add further confusion to the mix.

The only way I can prevent the issue from occurring is if I reduce the number of files in the directory.  These files stretch back as far as 2006 so I have been creating multiple sub folders by year (2006, 2007 etc.) and dropping the files in their based on the year in which they were last modified.

There are only 2 things I can possibly think of:

1. There is an issue with the parent directory path(s).  I can test this by moving all of the files except 1 out of the TL folder and testing.  I'll try that tomorrow.

2. There is something odd about the behaviour of Excel when you press 'Save As' - I don't know enough about what goes on under the hood when Save As is pressed to know for sure - do you know what the program actually does?  Say for example - does it build a cache of the other file names in that directory to speed up the saving of the file?  That could explain the freezing when working from a large directory?  I don't know, I'm shooting into the dark here.
