slow
3mcfzz
Excel sheet is very slow while navigating inside the cells/while scrolling

Hi Team,

In one of excel workbook, there are around 10 different sheets. And on 5 sheets there was a macro to control Lock/Unlock contents of particular cells in the 5 diff sheets.

I decided to remove the protection and i removed my macro for all the sheets. It's noticed that in 1 sheet excel navigation is very slow and it goes to "Not Responding" state. Am unable to perform operation in that sheet, it seems busy.

Any suggestions on what is actually causing this issue?
I don't want to delete this sheet & recreate as there are lot of formuleas written in the cells.

Thanks in Advance for your suggestion.


-------------
I have this issue at work fairly often as we have very large excel files. The issue is often resolved by going into the sheet causing the issue, and seeing if there is any "blank" information below where you think the information should end. 

I would go to a column and hit ctrl + down arrow to see if the sheet ends where you think it should. if it doesn't you can resolve the issue by selecting all of the cells you want to keep and cutting them to a new sheet, then deleting the old sheet. this will just leave you with the information you want, and not any information that may have been inadvertently added to the bottom or sides of the sheet (even if it appears blank there may be formatting information in tens of thousands of cells which could slow the sheet down.
-------------
Thanks for your reply.
But infact i have just only 182 rows & 10 columns of data. So it's not much. same number of data is present in another sheet as well, but that sheet is fine. Only this particular sheet is troublesome.
-------------
You might want to take a peek into the VBA and see if there is any code executing during activate/selection change.

We have a version of a sheet that protects/unprotects thousands of cells and it works just fine in excel 2010. In excel 2013 however, it literally crawls because of the changes that microsoft made to the protection algorithms.
-------------
Try setting your calculation option to manual and turn the "recalc on save" off. You can always access the auto-calc setting from the ribbon (alt+m+x) but recalc on save needs to be set from the options (options -> formulas -> uncheck "Recalculate on Save" under "Manual")

I've found that Excel can interpret lots of things as a need to re-calc including copy, pasting, and sometimes navigating.

That is not a lot of data to cause this problem however. What's the file size? Another possibility is that you brought in a lot of names - we have a problem where our consultants used a bunch of named ranges in a sheet that do nothing but bloat the file dramatically. Not sure if that's a possibility here but I'd recommend clearing it out.

edit: What /u/JKaps9 is saying is that while you *apparently* have only 182 rows of data, you or someone else may have accidentally pasted in many more rows with " " values depending on how your source was formatted. Using ctrl+down will check whether there are blanks padding your dataset.
-------------
There isnt any blank values or used blank cells. Its just a status file, so my team members just use to update the status of 1 cell in 182 rows.

i also revisited my vba code and checked that there isnt any wrong calls for lock/unlock cells.

Its really troubling. But that happens only in that sheet, thats really making me sick :(
