freeze
1xt6fm
Freeze panes column autofit malfunction

Hello all, encountered a weird problem today. I have a workbook that contains a data connection to an SQL table that's set up to refresh when the file is opened. Everything works fine with that. And I originally had the freeze panes setting set up so that just the table header row (row 1) was frozen. Everything worked great with that set up, when I opened the workbook, the query would refresh and the columns would autofit properly. Well then I decided I needed the A column frozen as well, so I unfroze panes and then refroze them so the header row AND first column were froze. Then I saved the file and closed it out. Upon reopening the file though, the autofit function no longer works properly and some of the columns are too narrow. I can easily fix this manually but it's just a pain in the butt to do this every time I open the file. Any ideas what's causing it? And before anyone suggests it, yes the external data properties "adjust column width" setting is checked still.

Thanks for the help!


-------------
[deleted]
-------------
I'd rather not protect the sheet. I want the columns to autofit, I just want them to do so correctly.
-------------
Granted that you are coming out of SQL sometimes the ODC external data connection brings in trailing data after a cell. For instance if you say in SQL I want this field to have a length of 255 but the data you bring in is 55 character long when it brings it out of SQL the JET data engine literally puts empty spaces after the end until the 256th character. Check your SQL table and otherwise see if the empty spaces are there after the end of the data. That is where your auto formatting issue is coming from. Excel IS formatting it to what it sees. It sees those characters. 

NOTE: This generally only happens when using an ODC from SQL to Excel. Alternative that I can think of? Use Access to make it conform, grab the data from Access. More steps maybe not what you need. 
-------------
Thanks for the tip, but I know nothing has changed in the data table that I'm importing (I know this because I maintain this particular SQL table).  I just have the workbook set up to automatically refresh the query upon opening the file just in case anything has changed.  So the only difference is the freeze panes option; when JUST the header row is frozen all the columns size themselves properly, but when I have the header row (row 1) and the first column (A column) (so this means I am selected on cell B2 when I freeze panes) then for some reason the columns widths adjust themselves automatically so that some of them are too narrow.  None of them are too wide.

Hope this makes sense.  I have a feeling this is just a bug within Excel itself, but was hoping someone had a workable solution.
