slow
2ywp2u
Shared spreadsheets are opening slow from network

Hey all. A few days ago I created this [thread](http://www.reddit.com/r/excel/comments/2yjjya/spreadsheets_with_macros_xlsm_load_slow_from/) about most of my companies facilities in different states are loading .xlsm files slow on our network. Today I was tinkering around and found that the reported issue was incorrect and it's actually because they are Shared Workbooks on the network that makes them slow.

So my question is what steps should I be taking to troubleshoot this issue? I googled this problem and Microsoft says to delete all unnecessary custom views and un-check Printer Settings in the Share Workbook advanced settings, which didn't really help a lot. Un-sharing files is not an option and I don't think we're willing to make the jump to using a cloud like SharePoint. Is there anything in the network's settings or any other settings related to Excel I should look for?

We are running Excel 2010 and we should all be running SP1 on Win 7. I don't know what hardware we're all running.


-------------
 Every time I do this I need to temporarily unshare the file periodically. I think it's because Excel likes to track all the changes that all the users have made. So I turn off sharing, save the file, then share it again. makes the file much smaller and faster. The file sharing is not a robust design and if you need multiple users to see the same data you really need a database.
-------------
It sounds like there's nothing you can do on the network side, which is likely where the problem is.  So I'm going to throw an idea out and see if it helps any.

One factor may be how the file is being accessed.  Do you know if people use UNC or mapped network drives to open the spreadsheet?

    UNC = \\server\share\myspreadsheet.xlsm
    Mapped = M:\folder\myspreadsheet.xlsm

Mapped drives may read faster.
-------------
.xlsb

Save all files as a binary. It keeps the macro functionality and reduces file size. 

Should help for quicker load speeds. 
-------------
Thanks for the response. We can do something about the network if the option is feasible. Like I read something about disabling the SMB protocol. I'm open to considering anything at the moment

I'm pretty ignorant of UNC vs Mapped drives though. But I think it's slow in either situation that this is slow. If we use VBA to open the file using the UNC drive it's just as slow as when people open it in a folder using the mapped drive.
