slow
445rnh
Pressing "File" in excel is extremely slow all of the sudden

Tried restarting the computer. Happens in all new instances of excel. Only add-ins are solver and analysis toolpack. 

Excel opens as usual, I click file and it pauses for 10 seconds, including a "not responding" in the title bar. Then finally opens. 

Clicking Home/Data/Review or any of those tabs is quick as usual. 

What gives?


-------------
Hard to tell without further analysis. If it was on opening excel (not on clicking file), it might have something to do with authentication if you're running office 365.  
But, as you're clicking on "file", i'd guess that it has something to do with a particular module of the excel interface, and it might not even be excel's fault, but the OS fault instead.  
  
I'd start by having a look at the windows event viewer to check if it reports something at the time it lags.  
  
EDIT: what is the excel version?
-------------
Excel 2010

Temporary solution (which has worked the last 10 minutes) is in the recent workbooks/places section of *File*, I right clicked and "clear unpinned..."

So if that is a permanent fix, then it seems like excel is going slow trying to find file locations on the company network or something? 
-------------
Seems it's something like that.  

I've seen this behavior when you have mapped network drives and the windows explorer lags to read the files, so it might not be an excel problem at all, but instead a windows issue.  
Check if it also lags when you open "my computer" (or "this pc" in windows 8 or later). If it does, there isn't much you can do except unmap the network drives, which might not be an option in the company environment.  
  
Other than that you can try and keep the recent document list clean so excel doesn't try to read every recent document each time you click on "file".
-------------
Thanks, I'll keep an eye on it and see if it reverts back. 

Solution Verified
-------------

You have awarded one point to _jonaskid_.    
[^Find ^out ^more ^here.](https://www.reddit.com/r/excel/wiki/clippy)

