long time
noih8
Long-time listener, first-time caller: Having a frustrating time with ColorCount function

I'm new to reddit, and newer still to Excel, so bear with me.

I work for a hospital, and part of my job is to track patient trends. Until recently, all this tracking was done on paper. I decided to try using Excel to simplify things, and most of the spreadsheet is working:

• I created 5 worksheets, labeled Monday through Friday.
• Each day contains data relevant to that day, sone of which, when it meets certain criteria, changes the cell color.
• At the bottom of the Friday worksheet, I made a column chart that (is supposed to) track how many of each changed cell occurs on each day.

Most of these columns are actually tracking other data in the cells; the data that actually determines the cell color change, rather than the color change itself. One column, however, seemed much more difficult to track this way, so I researched how to track by cell color, rather than data.

After a little searching, I found a site called cpearson.com, and there I found a downloadable macro that would include all the rules I would need to make this work: http://www.cpearson.com/Zips/modColorFunctions.zip

The site seems respectable, and I found it recommended on several other sites, so I grabbed it and used it. But here's my problem:

The formula I'm using to make the last column series is this:

"=ColorCount(K63,Monday!$I$2:$I$50)"
where "K63" is a cell Friday's worksheet that the color I'm looking for. But my results are erratic. Sometimes it returns a zero, other times it only seems to calculate half the cells in the range (or something, as the number is never as high as it should be).

In a nutshell, what the he'll am I doing wrong here?

EDIT: Sorry for the crappy formatting; I'm at work, and the hospital blocks reddit on the wired Net, so I'm accessing the wireless from my iPod, and it just doesn't want to play nice, for some reason.


-------------
I downloaded this and did some poking and two things stand out.  First I needed to manually tell it to calculate at times (use F9).  The second is that "ColorCount" is not a function supplied by the file you linked.

I used ColorIndexOfOneCell and piped the results of that into CountColor.  This in combination with using F9 gave me accurate results.

TLDR:  Check F9 first.
-------------
Can you paste the text of the ColorCount function?
-------------
I'll give that a try. Thanks!
-------------
I'm sorry, I'm at work and I can't risk downloading and installing that file, so my help might not be the most productive.

Anyway, if the macro isn't password protected, you should be able to throw in Application.Volatile and force the function to update automatically.

What exactly does the function do? If it's password protected it shouldn't be too hard to make a function that counts by color and is volatile, if the OP is comfortable enough with VBA to copy/paste it in (might not be practical on his phone though).



*edit I'm mistaken, just recoloring cells doesn't qualify as an event - you'll have to update a field value to make it calculate even if it is volatile. Instapunish is right, you'll have to hit F9. :/
