I am an engineer that makes Excel, happy to answer questions
I'm a CPA, and you do realize that entire professions and most of the global economy is dependent on Excel being bug-free. No pressure, dude.
just wanted to say thanks - i only really started to use excel about a year ago and now it's probably the most secretly fun part of my job.  i pivottable EVERYTHING!
Why can't we have negative col_index_num?

    =vlookup(69,A69:Z69,-69)

This would solve world hunger.
Did you work on any features or do you have any favorite features?

What would you say is the most under-utilized aspect of Excel?

A while ago I was using it to pull tabular data from a few different websites with queries but I was limited to something like 50 queries per page. Is there any way to extend the number of queries?

As a fellow engineer and a scientist Excel's pretty indispensable. Thanks for the product.
Have you guys ever spoken about enhancing the Excel Charts? I've always wanted boxplot capability, and usually have to fudge them with the stock charts (Open-High-Low-Close). 
Big fan of your work, man. 
There's almost no task, project, list, or note that I make to myself that doesn't begin by alt+tabbing to excel and hitting ctrl+ N. 
when will we be able to switch between sheets with a simple left hand shortcut (like alt+tab for programs)????

I can provide proof for any mods that pm me. 
I live my life in your product.

Also, how about a definitive pro/con list for using the xlsb format.  I can't find a reason not to use it, but I'm always wary because no one does.  Thanks!
Love the app, hate the fact that 2007 (hopefully only) has a silly habit of copying any styles in a book to a new book.   If you have love-lived sheets that get a bunch of data copied in, you hit the style limit DAMN fast, and it takes ages (even with a macro) to get rid of 'em.
What is your background? How did you get the job?
Why isn't data analysis not already installed on excel.  Every time I get new edition I have to go through the headache of trying remember how to install It all over again.  Please make it a default
Give the team a big thanks from all of us here!

Excel completely saves my work/life balance.  Excited for the new 2013 features.
Why haven't you guys implemented a way to specify the nth instance in a vlookup function?

What is your workflow to implement a new feature?

How much code do you reuse between major releases?

Thanks for everything you have done!!!! It saves the world so much time!
How much do you study actual users and who are they? I imagine accountants and engineers use Excel very differently, for example.
Thank you and your colleagues for making my job so much easier every fucking day
PowerPivot is fantastic! Thank you for helping on that. Can you say what some of the future plans for it are? 
Are you aware of any plans to update the oh-so wonderful query interface (MS Query/Connection configuration)

I like that my Excel can connect to databases, I don't like trying to debug the query in a box as big as my thumb.
One thing that drives me crazy, why do new workbooks not open in their own Excel session? It's such a pain when they open as another window in the existing Excel window. 

I spend much more time opening another Excel, then opening just the workbook I want in it. 
Thank you. That is all.
What vision does Microsoft have for VSTA? Do you hope to phase out VBA altogether in the coming years?
I know excel but not a great vba or any programmer, are my chances at a job slim :(
I have searched high and low for this and cant seem to find an answer.

Can I make Excel purge certain characters for a set of cells?

My data is ###.####.### or ###-####-### and I need it to be ##########

Thanks!
Love and live in excel! great product! Selecting multiple worksheets to unhide at once would be nice.
Why is there no superscript nor subscript button in excel? (2010 version). For example, writing a chemical formula or math equation with a mix of these is a first world pain without the buttons. I have found a couple 3rd party add-ins but this seems like it would be 1/2 hour work for someone at msoft to implement. 
What are some lesser known tips shortcuts or tricks of Excel?
What's the recommended way to learn VBA these days? Is VBA even promoted by MS anymore to automate processes with Excel?
Not sure if you'll see this, but is there any plan to implement a better VBA IDE? The current implementation hasn't visually/editing features really changed for many versions and the autocomplete is finniky at best.

OTOH I love the improved integration w/ Office & Outlook we saw in 2010 very fucking awesome.
Has the charts exportation to pdf been improved? When I open a chart with illustrator it's full of unusefulness clipping masks.
1) What advantages does Power Pivot offer to the regular and power user?
2) One of my absolute favorite features of google docs is the ability to create their online forms, which function as sort of simple suveys. As Office (and Excel) become more integrated with online services, will Microsoft offer a similar function as google forms?

I love VBA and excel. 
Im a huge mac fan but Excel is my all time favourite app. What do you think of apple "numbers" of iWork?.
They always say that they only introduce a product if it's going to have an important contribution in the industry, but that app to me is just embarrassing compared to excel...
Hey Major.

This question just came up in another discussion.

When you double click the fill handle to copy down, why can't the behaviour be modified by a CTRL/ALT to do horizontal instead (not SHIFT because that seems to be already in use to move cells down)?

Would eliminate SHIFT+ARROW then CTRL+r to fil right...
Why, oh why oh why are the menu's not more intuitive? 

My experience of Excel is that, absolutely nothing I take a stab at intuitively works, and then I have to mull about the menus endlessly searching and searching for assistance. 

Right now, I've got a file I've used for years and years, and I'm trying to sort the rows under the one carrying the date and its not sorting properly. I know the cell format is higgledy piggeldy, but do you think I can find a global way to correct this? Fat chance! Its really really REALLY hateful!

Edit: And let me add I don't have this problem with any other of the numersou programmes I use :)



you have to be a member of an exclusive club of long-term Excel users who know all the creepy by-ways and in's and out's 
* Are there plans to better handle void and blank cells? 

* Will x-y scatterplots pivotcharts be available again in the future? By the way there is a way to make a real, actual x-y scatterplot pivotchart in Excel 2010, which is normally prevented by the interface - but it's convoluted and not completely bug free. Even JPeltier didn't know it.

* Could there be a "fill down formulas in columns adjacent to data" option for pivot tables as well? (not just for queries)

* Could there be a keyboard shortcut for the double-click fill handle?

* Will the VBA editor interface and help be updated? I really love Excel and 99% of its capabilities, but I find the VBA editor neither user-friendly or useful.

* Are 2003 keyboard shortcuts still available in 2013? This would be great as they were cleverly designed (most of the useful ones can be used with the left hand only as you must know).

Thanks.
I owe a great deal of my career and happiness at work to you guys. Excel is my favorite tool in the box, and a endless source of fun... 

Just, thank you! 
Hi, can you tell me/guide me to directions on how I can convert large horizontal spreadsheet into few long columns so I can successfully export it into a database for an data management/data analysis software?
I know this isn't your area of expertise for excel, but is there anyway to make time an actual usable function?  I love the date serial number thing. that's excellent. but when I am doing time studies excel is my worst enemy.
Excel 2010

Our company uses workbooks as log-like databases. Workbooks with sometimes hundreds or thousands of rows/records. One column in the various workbooks contains links to PDF files relating to that row/record.

PDF files are moved hither and yon all over the server by god and everyone else around here.

I want the links to the PDF files to update themselves upon workbook opening if files have been moved.

Am I dreaming? Is this possible?

Need more information to understand the problem?

Gold to whomever to can fix this without making me want to hide under my desk and cry.

Hey Bud! Im working on an excel sheet that will sim the letters on the front sign of my repair shop. i got all the letters and numbers and the amount of slots i have available. i want to make it so if i add a letter to the sign grid it will deduct 1 from the corresponding letter/number in my key.  you think you could help? 
Im looking to make a template where I can plug in words to a questionnaire and it will automatically fill in on more of a word document style formating. 

An example would be "What state are you in: New york" and it would take the sentence "The customer lives in the state of _____" and fill in the blank and any other time the state of the customer would be needed it would fill into where it should be on the paragraph.
When I first see the new Excel, will it make me leave my girlfriend and marry a pivot table?
Im a librarian and working on questions for our Elementary Battle of the Books questions. I have a spreadsheet with separate sheet for title, author and fact questions.There are 21 different books and we have about 10 questions for each category . I want to create a sheet with grouped into a specified number of questions from each category and each title so we can have multiple rounds in our district tournament. I am working in Excel 2013. I know this may seem like a silly request, but any assistance is appreciated. Please let me know if i am unclear and i will try to clarify.
Thank you so much.

What is a formula I don't know that everyone should know?  Or a shortcut?  I make it a goal to learn Excel without using the mouse, so I'm always asking people for pointers.
I was trying to teach myself how to build a bell curve. I have 3300 data points. I went through the tutorial on the Microsoft site, but it has me make two curves, and when I am done, there are two bell curves.  What am I doing wrong, or is there a better way to do this? 

Thanks for the help. 
how do i get the max value of a graph when its not one of the points but part of the curve connecting the points, when i put the cursor over it it only allows me to see the potted values
Hi, I am trying to make a cell display the difference between two times to give a duration. However, in one of the variable cells, it's only going to display time with a "=NOW()" command. I have it set up to populate the time in that cell once something is placed in another cell. Not sure if I am conveying accurately what it is I am trying to do, but any help would be appreciated.

I've tried doing a simple "=Cell2-Cell1" but it returns a weird number value. When I try to set the number type to "time" it displays a time that makes no sense. I am happy to send you the file if that would help. Thanks!
Is there a way to turn a cell with multiple variable into three cells?

For example: to go form name last name email to three columns with each of these values.  


How do you solve problems when dealing with the data after grouped, the formula can be dragged if the data are continuous, while after grouping, it doesn't work, we have to copy the formula one by one, how do you deal with it? and are there any more convenient ways?
Are there any functions so that on a cell that shows "Todays Date" automatically updates to tomorrow's date after 2PM by forcing Excel to do an auto-refresh at that time? I work in an office where a lot of due dates depend on when the mail goes out and it would be nice to have a table that automatically knows to shift all dates connected to the "Today's Date" back one day after 2PM. Thanks!
Uhhhh,  hiring?????

Haha no seriously, could not live without it. Just sad more people don't how powerful it really is!
Will I always be able to use the + sign when writing a formula?
Thank you !!
I've had Excel 2013 grind to a stop a few times trying to process the animations on onboard graphics on my Thinkpad T400. Any way to turn off the Excel animations without disabling the Windows native animations? Also, seems like cell formatting ranges takes some serious CPU usage in 2013. I've seen a solid 30 seconds of processing to format a range of cells. 

Running Excel 2013 preview on W8 x64 on a T400. 
we are reminded of this daily :).
you can use an INDEX(MATCH()) statement to "look up" backwards...I can't explain right now, but there are dozens of articles if you google it. 
the one question I want answered gets ignored :(
Because you have a defined range starting at column one  adding a negative moves thr range, and probably takes up a bunch of memory. To the point where you should just organise your data corrrectly and use index/match
Hahaha.
the most under utilized feature IMHO is the Pivottable -  the power it gives you is limitless and when people figure out how to use them it blows their mind. 
I work mostly on heavy data analysis features like pivottables, query tables, connections to databases etc. I worked a lot on www.powerpivot.com which is now the Data Model inside Excel 2013.

Did you use the web query feature to pull the data ? 
Jon Peltier is one of our data visualization MVPs ( non MSFT employee recognized as an authority in a given area). Check out his blog http://peltiertech.com/WordPress/excel-box-and-whisker-diagrams-box-plots/
We are constantly looking into new visualizations. We added a couple in Excel 2013 and you can check those out with the free preview
If you are ok using your right hand, I believe it's Ctrl + PgUp/PgDwn
Prepare for heresy: the Mac version has something like this. The option button and the direction keys. I'm assuming you have the PC version, so that still doesn't help you. For anyone who has Mac though, there ya go. Also, I use both on the same machine with parallels. Best of both worlds. 
by definition the binary format is not as extensible as the xml based format. This means that if you want cross product compatibility (Office -> LibreOffice-> Numbers ) etc. One of the cool thinks about xlsx is that you can change the extension from .xlsx to .zip and look at the contents of the entire excel file and change things without the app. 

Feature wise xlsx and xlsb are the same so there should be no differences. Hope this helps
you can always paste special only values or match destination formatting. 
Software engineer specializes in business intelligence and financial engineering. Got recruited out of school. There is all sorts of backgrounds though from ex flash game designers to mathematics phds to a guy who graduated from vet school.
Enabling addins is a performance balancing act. We try to load the least amount possible so that the app opens quickly. The more addins and libraries we need to load the slower the boot experience would be. We look at how many people use the different stuff and optimize for the majority. 
a lot. We visit customer small and large shadowing them for days understanding their workflows. We conduct usability studies where we test out new features, designs, etc. We comb through those crash reports (those popup dialogs that ask you to send info to MSFT) all the time to figure out what problems people are hitting. That said with 250+ million active users we always have to generalize.  My first boss once told me , "When developing Excel any decision you make will probably piss off at least a million people,just make sure the rest are happy" :).
for starters we directly integrated it into Excel 2013. The add-in which is the advanced data modelling tool comes packaged in the Office 2013 Pro Plus. this allows for using other technologies like Powerview directly on the Excel data model. 

In terms of future plans I cannot talk specific other than we are committed to making Excel the best self service business intelligence tool out there. 
keep your eyes open for a new add-in that we will be launching soon codename "Data Explorer" ;)
you just hit my pet peeve :). No, MSQuery is ancient and I doubt that it will ever get updated (to my knowledge and again just my opinion). That said we are constantly working on new ways to connect to structured and unstructured data , hopefully very soon you wont need MSQuery anymore.

BTW if you try Powerpivot (add-in for excel 2010 or built into Excel 2013) they have a nice database connection UI where you can visually refine your queries.
thats has been addressed in Excel 2013
No thank you for using our stuff =)
With the new version of Excel 2013 we now support JavaScript to interact with workbooks ( Look up apps for Office). This allows development for solutions that work both on desktop and on the excel web app. I don't think vba will be phased out since millions of solutions depend on it but the future is definitely a programmability model that works both on traditional desktops as well as web. This btw is just my opinion.
Depends. VBA is not.a requirement . There are 4 disciplines that work directly on  the excel teams: developers , testers, program managers and designers. There is also a ton of supporting staff like technical writers, support engineers ,etc. Each discipline had its own requirements.
Just use =SUBSTITUTE(###.###.####, "." , "")
You can nest another substitute around it to get rid of the "-" too.
The new version of excel has flash fill (search for excel 2013 flash fill). Are your values fixed length?
 Thanks for the help I went with:
=SUBSTITUTE(A1,"-","") which worked great!
When inside a range of data Ctrl + A selects it all, Ctrl +T creates a table.
http://office.microsoft.com/en-us/excel-help/keyboard-shortcuts-in-excel-2010-HP010342494.aspx


Macro recording to learn VBA is probably the trick that i have gotten the most out of.
i taught myself with this book and by using Macro recording:
http://www.amazon.com/Excel-2010-Bible-John-Walkenbach/dp/0470474874/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1350753522&sr=8-1&keywords=excel+bible

http://office.microsoft.com/en-us/excel-help/record-and-use-excel-macros-HA001054837.aspx
Powerpivot has 2 main advantages for power users: 1) it allows to create relationships between data and data sources meaning that in one pivottable you can have data from 2 or more sources. 2) the amount of data that can be stored in the data model is only limited by your machines memory (x64 versions). So even though the sheets itself can only show ~1.2 million rows inside the data model you could have 100x that memory permitting. 
different applications designed with very different users in mind. Numbers does a couple of things very well like make very aesthetically pleasing spreadsheets from scratch and provide you with a lot of templates to get started on simple solutions like task lists, schedules, small budgets etc. I don't think to many people do serious spread-sheeting with numbers and that is a consequence of their focus i believe. 
I haven't really looked into this so I don't have a good answer for you. We try to stream line main activities by adding shortcuts with almost every new feature. I would have to ask the guys who own this particular feature what they think. 
* If my handle you mean remove then: Hit F5, go to special , select blanks all will be selected then hit delete. If you are talking about inside a pivottable in pivot options you can select what to do with blanks including put a different value, ignore or not show.
* Thats a great question for our chart team. I am unaware of it being under development at this time but that doesnt mean it isnt :).
* That's an interesting concept... care to elaborate how you see that playing out?
* Ctrl +D for down, Ctrl + R for right (Other shortcuts found [here]( http://office.microsoft.com/en-us/excel-help/keyboard-shortcuts-in-excel-HA102772370.aspx?CTT=1))
* Help is always being updated at [Office.com](www.office.com)). The ide has not been modernized in Excel 2013 and future improvements to it are still up in the air. 


=)
marry a pivot table yes.
leave your girlfriend no.

its gets complicated.
hard to tell what went wrong without seeing the file . Did you try this tutorial?
http://support.microsoft.com/kb/213930

if so maybe you can put the file on a share somewhere and i can take a look.
you cant with stock excel. I am pretty sure there is some add-ins that might let you do this... sorry :(
This is quite delayed, but =NOW() includes the date -- not just the time -- in the serial number. Subtracting a time from it (or vice versa) would give a strange time. 

If I've understood you correctly, you should use =NOW()-TODAY() to just get the current time of day.
yes, under the data tab (v 2007 and above) there is a text to columns feature. If your on 2013 their is Flash fill which will automatically do this for you.
This formula will produce tomorrow's date after 2pm, or today's date  before 2pm:

    =IF(HOUR(NOW())<14,TODAY(),TODAY()+1)

However, the answer will not update automatically. It depends on you changing any cell in any open workbook to trigger the update, or pressing F9/calculate now. Even with VBA, I don't know of a way to force the update automatically while still being able to use the workbook.

**EDIT:** You might just get a strange number as an answer to this. If so, just format the cell as a date.
actually always hiring www.microsoft.com/careers you can specifically look inside the Microsoft Office Division. 

glad you like it , i think its pretty cool to work on it :)
we had some issues in the consumer preview with this that we addressed for the final version. You found the only workaround for the consumer preview already.
I love that a Microsoft employee encourages people to Google something rather than Bing it.
yeah I know how to do index/match and don't get me wrong, I do love it... having a negative col_index_num is just more intuitive in my opinion
I love pivot tables except when it comes to grouping and un grouping items. Once grouped, it's hard to un group efficiently.
It definitely isn't under estimated, but I feel like a lot of people are not comfortable with it.
What do you think are the biggest limitations if pivots? 
The slicers are a nice way to present a pivot table data to a non-user in a more visually and GUI friendly way. I wish I got to use them more in my job!
On a related note, why doesn't the Mac version have the same web query capability? I have to use parallels to be able to do it. 
Yes, I tried to use the web query feature however I found a work-around to get CSV dumps from the server instead.
Just started my new job a couple weeks ago and just started using pivot tables connected to a database/data warehouse, and it's extremely interesting.  Might post a lesson on it.

Have had trouble using the familiar drill-down feature of double clicking a cell in a pivot and getting a summary of the data.  Is this just not possible using some/all database connections?
I mostly work on 2007, and have limited access to 2010, but here are my comments:

1) THANK YOU. MS Excel is the best MS product.

2) Since you are the pivot guy: "show etiquettes of elements" in 2010 IS FANTASTIC, in 2007, we had to do this with formulas!!!


You could add few things:

3) Could you create some easier way for the "value box" (for a pivot table) to swap the type of data that we would like to see? Basically sometimes I make a pivot table of some data for whole year, but I do not want to see "sums" but "counts" or "averages" -> I have to click each selected column and change it from "sum" to "count" - which is irritating when I have 20 columns - maybe you could create a way to select all of them -> and do it for all of them with one click (some form of shift select?)

4) Pivot not working well with autofilter -> in order to sort data (basically autofilter sort does not work -> one has to sort "via column" in the pivot itself) - cannot test it in 2010 right now
Also autofilter limit of 10 000 rows is incredibly painful - maybe you could report it to some other developer and you finally tackle the problem? Although I guess you would recommend a pivot table :D
I hate you so much
Nice! He's got a "Whisker Chart Utility for Excel".. I'll have to check that out. 

How does one become a data visualization MVP anyway? Are you just aware of his blog / work, or do you have "non MSFT" testers and such?
Cheers, I haven't looked at 2013 yet!
This is also a great way to remove the password protection. :-)
Changing .xlsm to .zip is something I use daily to extract pictures easially. 
Yeah, problem is dealing with a pile of users who toss 60MB spreadsheets around like frisbees who are reasonably non-technical, and of course, want their colors....

Regardless, I have a job BECAUSE they aren't technical. :D

The registry patch for 2007 seems to have cleared it up on the few users I'm trialing it on, but there's still quite a few out there.

High-five whomever made EDATE, willya?  Damn handy function.
You're just a bunch of animals... I KNEW IT!
Flash games?? My whole life has led up to this moment
I just could have used so I could do ANOVA for stats class. But it's all good. I already passed the class....just a suggestion.
>We visit customer small and large shadowing them for days understanding their workflows

How do I get on that list?
(Upvote, save comment, bookmark) Awesome!
Arg... not the even more painful wait to 2013 now that my company just a year ago made the jump to 2007.  (seriously great job on fixing 99% of my pet peaves in 2010.  Great to see PowerPivot making it into 2013, as I think the xp and prior era of pivot tables scared a lot of people off using them).
as someone just getting started, would you recommend learning vba or java?
I am on Excel 2007.  Is there a way to configure a custom cell type to only accept numbers and purge the rest?

The Values are always 12 characters with the . or - but I need it purged to 10 with just the numbers.
Cool and cheers.
Thanks for your reply! 

* I was more referring to blank cells in formula. For instance if I write =if(A1=1,"not blank","") in cell A2 and A1<>1, then A2 is not considered as blank. I cannot select it with the Go to/special, and there are a few instances were it is useful to differentiate between empty and non-empty cells.

* Fill down formulas in adjacent columns for pivot tables: there are two reasons why I would love to see this. I very often need to create formulas based on calculated fields of pivot tables (based on variable external data). The first reason is that there are some formulas which I simply cannot enter as a calculated field in a pivot tables (weighted averages are a tricky one when I cannot change the source data), and the second one is that calculated fields are less user-friendly and less transparent than regular formulas. Consequently, I use the adjacent columns of my pivot tables, but I have to update them when the source data of a pivot table changes. Hope it makes sense.

* Ctrl+D is only for the cell immediately below or right of the selection. A shortcut for the double click on the fill handle would be nice, automatically filling down a formula based on the adjacent columns.

I know these one are very specific and that you have to find a balance between all users too.
looks like i cant do my chem hw then haha, thanks anyway though 
Thank you so much! I will give this a try tonight!
Maybe he wants us to google it with bing
traditional pivottables could only be created on a single table - with the new data model feature in Excel 2013 this limitation is gone and you can now join data from multiple tables/sources. 
Mac and Windows Excel have different development priorities since they are targeted at a different user base. This is the main reason why the differ in capabilities. 
thats correct some connection types do not allow drill down. Its going to depend on if we can generate the detailed query or not.
Thanks for the feedback  on (3). hear that loud and clear and sadly other than a custom VBA solution i dont have a better thing for you (the VBA should be pretty simple though).
4) yup Pivottable it is - autofilter limits we havent gotten around to fixing.
Usually its awarded after years of experience , blogs , books written on the subject etc. These guys help us a lot when it comes to planning.
this also works pretty well for vba passwords in.xls format http://www.zorvek.com/excel/removing-an-excel-workbook-vba-password.htm



That's an awful lot of effort just to hide porn.
High five delivered =)
There is also a clear formatting feature , you could technically do some cleanup on these files but it's kind of manual labor
Just realized the difference between EDATE and EOMONTH, and you're right, that's really great!
I have had to deal with this in 2007- you don't need a macro so long as the formatting you are dealing with is in the same range of cells across all sheets and the range of sheets is contiguous.

Lets say I wanted to remove all the borders from column A in sheet 1 through sheet 5. I would simply select column A (clicking on A) in sheet 1, and then press shift, and then click on the final sheet in the series. Then I'd go to the boundary box in the ribbon, uncheck borders (if some of the sheets have borders and some do not, you will probably have to uncheck borders twice), and then all five sheets would have column A's which didn't have a boundary box.

It is extremely helpful when you have no clue how to use macros. It's also useful for clearing content and the like across long workbooks with many sheets. It's very powerful without needing to be a macro and is actually also equally useful at preserving formatting across the sheets.

/I have to deal with this because I have a report that tracks 60 employees that is changed every month, and senior management wants no colors, while middle management wants all the colors. I just build it with all the colors, save one copy that way, then change the formatting using that trick, and save a copy that way. Takes like an extra 15 seconds and means that EVERYONE LOVES USERBLANK69 AND THEY ALSO HAVE AN AWESOME USER NAME CAUSE LAWL 69
Ha we don't use his vet skills much =)
PM me I can take your info. There is no compensation for this though.
Java will give you a way better foundation. 
java will get your further these days(outside excel) althgouh if you work all day in Excel vba is your best friend.
Couple of ways to do this but I'm on my phone so writing the formula would be a nightmare, I'll look at this from home. 
Good luck :-) Sorry I can't think of a way for autoupdate. If you are using the file, it will update any time you change a cell, but then it will stay static until the next change. Otherwise, VBA to update it constantly will work, but it will effectively lock the file from being used.
To be honest, I believe that (3) should be able to be changed without VBA, maybe in newer-newer Excel :-)
Yeah, the issue is when you get styles breeding like rodents, so you have things like "20% Accent 12341 2", 50,000+ times...    So far, the best solution I've come up with have been basically iterating through the styles in VBA, and if it's not part of the original set (loaded into a Dictionary), deleting it... when you max out the book, you're still looking at roughly 30+ minutes to clear them out.

Worst bit is.... my users don't even know what Styles ARE....

I'm open to suggestions to making it faster. :)


    <SNIP>
    Application.DisplayAlerts = False
    Application.EnableEvents = False
    Application.ScreenUpdating = False

    ProgForm.Caption = "This delay is annoying, but presently unavoidable...."
    On Error Resume Next
    i = 0
    IntTimer = Timer
    CheckInterval = 100
     For Each Sty In ActiveWorkbook.Styles
        If Not Dict_Styles.Exists(Sty.Name) Then
            ProgForm.Label1.Caption = "(Remaining: " & Format(ActiveWorkbook.Styles.Count, "0,000") & ") -  Presently deleting """ & Sty.Name & """"
            ActiveWorkbook.Styles(Sty.Name).Delete
            ProgForm.ProgressBar1.Value = ActiveWorkbook.Styles.Count
            DoEventsVariable = DoEvents
        End If
        If ProgForm.DidUserTerminate Then
            ProgForm.Destroy
            Exit Sub
        End If
        i = i + 1
        If i > CheckInterval Then
            ProgForm.Caption = "Expected completion: " & Format(((ActiveWorkbook.Styles.Count / (CheckInterval / (Timer - IntTimer)) + Timer) / 86400), "hh:mm AM/PM")
            IntTimer = Timer
            i = 0
        End If
     Next
    </SNIP>
ProgForm being a userform with a Label and a Progressbar

Just initializing the for look there when you have 40k+ styles takes a couple of minutes on a Core i5/7
I wish it was that simple....  Here, let me show you the problem. :D

[Prepare to be appalled!](http://imgur.com/iUXOj)

Why did I put the number in?

[Unique cell formats/cell styles 	64,000](https://office.microsoft.com/en-us/excel-help/excel-specifications-and-limits-HP010073849.aspx)
Forgot to ask - how do I make the Today+1 only show weekdays, so on Fridays it show's Monday's date?
Not on my computer right now but ill check on this.
Lol users are jackasses. That's why I frequently lock stuff down to only accept certain inputs from certain people, after doing the work to fix their stuff the first time.
    =IF(HOUR(NOW())<14,TODAY(),IF(WEEKDAY(TODAY()+1,2)<=5,TODAY()+1,TODAY()+3))

If the current time is before 2pm, the deadline date is today. Otherwise, if it is after 2pm today, and tomorrow is a weekday, then the deadline is tomorrow's date. Otherwise, if tomorrow's date is NOT a weekday and it's after 2pm today, then the deadline is Monday.

Hope that makes sense.

I tested it and it works fine, BUT make sure you satisfy yourself that it's ok to use.

Remember that the answer for this formula might just be a funny number (above 40,000). That's a date serial number. Just change the cell's format to "Short Date" or similar to get the real date.

Good luck!
Oh, it's not the users doing it.    All they are doing is copying data from one workbook to another.   Excel 2007 goes "DURRHURRHURR" and copies all the styles over....  30 styles becomes 60... 60 becomes 120...etc..etc... until you try to copy some data, causing the style count to exceed 64,000 and Excel just stops them dead.

It was......a gruesome discovery.
Works perfectly! Is there an easy way to exclude holidays from the days included in the formula? Thanks so much!

Yes!  That was a pretty terrible day for me as well.  Took a long while to figure out why the most used spreadsheet in the company suddenly stopped working and then how to fix it.  Of course, the reason it crashed is completely crazy too.

I'm home for the weekend, but I have an application on my office computer that cleans the styles out.  I'll try and remember to post it here on Monday.
My pleasure. If only all life's problems were this easy to solve. 

Do you have a list of holiday dates for your country? If you can find a national holidays list and add state/local holidays to make one big list, that would help.
I know, right? Do you have IM or something? That would be easier to talk on. I'm also trying to figure out how to have a cell display a word such as "Important" but when you "copy" that cell and "paste" it into a word document or something, it will actually paste a paragraph of text "hidden" underneath that word, if that makes sense. A way to have more information display in a small table without having to show its entire contents or have a sentence run off the cell.
Sorry, don't have IM. Feel free to message me here. I've just been trying to work out a solution for the holidays based on the list of US national holidays from timeanddate.com, and it's a recursive pain in the butt. Hehehe.

As for Word, I have never done much beside just writing documents. Perhaps there's a way with VBA to pull data from a table in Excel, so that if a table's cell says Important, it inserts a longer string in Word.
