Sorry, Geeks, Microsoft Excel is Everywhere
I work at a financial services company and we use excel for everything. I also specialize in automation and my spreadsheets/macros allow us to do the work of hundreds with our dozens, and we do it faster, cleaner, and more accurately that way.
It sounds like this article is defending Excel. From whom? I didn't know there was some sort of "backlash" against it.
I doubt anyone in this subreddit doesn't appreciate Excel for what it is - but I have to say it: Fuck the Excel haters.
I guess this guy just reinvented the buzzword which has been popular like 3-5 years ago: "spreadsheet oriented architecture".
I'm in the process of expanding a spreadsheet that the department uses to project what their end of year Budget vs Actuals position will be.

We gained some new divisions recently so I have to create a new report for each divisions and feed those into the summary report at the start.

Oi, I'm tempted to start from scratch because troubleshooting is starting to get a bit cumbersome, but I don't have the 1-2 weeks to re-do it properly.
Exactly.  The problem isn't the tool, it was this:

> completed manually, by a process of copying and pasting data

I'm a self taught amateur at Excel, using it 8 hours a day at my company (a large international insurance company).  But linking documents using a macro or formula is fairly easy stuff.
There are lots and lots of complaints that Excel is being used for something it's not designed to be used for.  These are all valid complaints.  However, there often is nothing *better* designed, so there you have it.
Sounds like a good candidate for VBA. 
What's striking is that not everyone has your level of proficiency. It's a decent article in light of a world where risk management models at JP Morgan aren't automated and linked like this. (Reporting makes it sound like a mistake rather than a deliberate safety procedure).
I've been assigned to bring departments up to speed in the past and it's frustrating how some employees (mostly 20+ year veterans) insist on doing things the way they're used to now matter how crazy or wasteful. They'll do things like manually add up columns on an adding machine, then print the page and attach the tape to it as backup for their work. Then when you try to show them why what they are doing is ridiculous they come up with every excuse in the book as to why what you're proposing is not going to work in their case.
Yeeeah. I'm about 90% done. Once the template is in, it just a matter of refreshing a download and it recalculates.
You're correct.  I never thought moving one column of data to another worksheet or workbook using a vlookup (rather than say, sorting both sheets and pasting from one to the other) was a difficult thing.  It just came from being inquisitive, using the Insert Function (formula wizard), and searching the surprisingly helpful Help database.

But then again, I have 30+ year employees that think I send incomplete reports, because they don't notice that more than one worksheet can exist in a single workbook.
You...you just described what would be hell for me.

I get annoyed when I watch people manually click the copy and paste buttons. :S
