Not sure how well this will go over, but consider it my thank you to you all
I'm always surprised with people who do things so inefficiently in excel. I've watch coworkers manually copy paste 1000 cells from a single row to a single column, when transpose would've done it in seconds. But they're happy with it; it works and doesn't need fixing. That drives me crazy! But then I think I'm the other end of the spectrum where I'll spend an hour or two figuring out how to automate something in 5 seconds that would've taken only 30 minutes to do manually. Not sure which is worse
Hey, as long as you're learning, and passing on the knowledge as you go.
I just tell my teammates "I asked the internet, and they told me..."
I don't think there is anything wrong with that. As long as you aren't just repeating what you heard verbatim regardless of the situation and are tailoring your advice to the specific problem,it doesn't really matter where you learned it from.  
I spent 2 hours writing a macro that would automate a task in 2 seconds that normally takes me 2 minutes. The task in question occurs twice every month so I'll start reaping the benefits after a year or so.

To be fair it was the first macro I ever wrote.
I do that too.  I know a few basics, like transpose and some pivot table stuff, but really know very little about working in Excel as an application.  I'd much rather hack together a quick dictionary object and loop through rows in VBA than learn to use vlookup.
They bring me a problem and I "hmm" and "uhm" then try a few things I know look impressive but won't work then tell them give me an hour or so and I'll figure it our.. Once they leave my desk I bring y'all up in a new tab and get the pros to do the heavy lifting while I reap the benefits of being the "indispensable excel guy".

I should feel bad, but I don't
I do so much of that in my job.  Most of the macros I write are used by three other people as well, so the payoff is a little sooner.  Mostly I think of those times as training, because the next macro might only take me 1:45 to write.
