MS Office Certification - Excel Expert
If I ever needed to get another job and prove Excel mastery, I've got a portfolio of personal projects I could do that with. Stuff that makes people say, you can do THAT with Excel?
I've got the certification. Employers aren't going to make anything like that mandatory for any particular position, but I'll admit that it helps as a bullet on my CV. While I was interviewing for jobs they would often bring it up and I would launch into how I had received specialized training in Excel and was fluent in VBA, etc. It's worth the money, especially if you're not paying for it...
Nay, ive never seen people require them. They are a bit meaningless to be honest, each company you work for will have a different use of Excel. Just get a mastery over the basics and learn to youtube.

Otherwise, id rather take some excel classes to learn advanced commands rather than certification
/r/Excel is the most basic Excel help forum on the net.  Very few of the questions that come up here are able to test someone who is proficient in Excel.  Forums like stackoverflow excelforum or ozgrid are for most serious users.

Now most employers might be impressed with that certificate but actually having worked somewhere for a few years where you get to use advance spread sheeting skills everyday, you are going to ace that exam first time without studying.
There are actually 2 tests. A regular and an advanced. This advances one is relatively new, because they were still writing it 2-3 years ago when I was looking to take it.
So I wouldn't assume all the questions are easy, since they have another test for the easy stuff. This advanced test looks to be (or was supposed to be back when they were writing it) about all of the data features. 

I've taken practice exams for 77-888--a lot of the questions are over pointless material that I could just as easily Google, like "how many rows can you have in an Excel 2003 document".

That being said, I've never been asked by an employer, current or prospective, whether I have it. I personally wouldn't bother.
Is the test multiple choice, or does it have you actually perform tasks in a mockup of the program?
Oh , was hoping the 888 would be a true test of excel skills rather than a memory test :(
To add to this, I can't imagine it being a requirement anywhere.  It won't hurt you though.  If you really just want to get some certifications and your work is paying for it?  Then go for it.
[facepalm].....I actually know that... 

Of course, that's because it's 16 bits-1  (2^16 -1)

2007+  is the same, but it's 20 bits... no -1 this time though.
>a lot of the questions are over pointless material that I could just as easily Google, like "how many rows can you have in an Excel 2003 document".

I would call this more of an experience piece than a pointless fact. If you've ever worked with a large amount of data, you'd be very familiar with the line limit of 2^16. You would also understand why the upgrade from 2003 to 2007 was so meaningful, even if they did muck up the menus/tool bars.


It's a mockup that asks you to do a number of tasks in sequence on a phony workbook. 
$150 memory test. 
Yeah, if your work is paying for it, for sure, why not? I'd pursue more relevant certifications on my own dime, though.
