History of Microsoft Excel 1978 – 2013 [Infographic]
TIL that Excel hasn't really gotten any really useful updates except weird XML implementation and large sheets  in the last 17 years. But a lot of eye candy ;-) 

...Oh, how I miss the old macro language when you could program in your own laguage. A a swede you didnt write IF X>32 but OM X>32 ...  Fun times when you got a macro in a language you didn't understand... nor did your Excel.

That "infographic" is pretty darn close to just plain old "infotext".
I liked the infographic, but it should really be called the history of the spreadsheet, since Visicalc, *not* Excel, was born in 1978. Excel wouldn't come for nearly seven more years. 
The grammar and spelling are nightmarish. 
>TIL that Excel hasn't really gotten any really useful updates except weird XML implementation and large sheets in the last 17 years.

I hope you're being facetious. PowerPivot alongside Excel 2010, followed by Excel 2013's Data Model functionality is a HUGE innovation.

Also, conditional formats :P
I want this "infotext" to exist for other applications like word or powerpoint.
Yes I was trolling... a bit... 

There are more good inventions (performance, stability, html import, sparklines)

...but sometimes we get a lot of 'improvements' like jumping paperclips, almost-not-programmable toolbars (kind of fixed in 2010 though) or sidebars (seems to have gone the way of jumping paperclips) instead of being able to write 'Select distinct' queries (you can via VBA/ADO but...), understandable pixel/font measurements, plot charts with dynamic labels, more statistical functions, easy to configure data import (so the connection string is both in the workbookfile and in an external file? Uh... Great - do I have to do filewrite? :) and many other things one seems to write a macro often for or bump into all the time on the forums (dont get me wrong, I like the tabs but never heard someone saying: the menus we had for 10 years are complicated - remove them :)

In short: yes - perhaps it was a bit too much trolling and whining. A lot of good stuff has happened. 
