For my cakeday, I, too, would like to share something that wouldn't have been possible without you guys. I got a lot of praise from my boss for this and I owe it to this community.
looks neat. Can you please link the original thread here. I'd like to have a look at it and learn a thing or two.
I hope that's not actual company information as your boss may not be too happy with that being displayed publicly. Otherwise, looking very sharp. Nice job
That's very nice.  Always glad to see this kind of work.  I had a very simple question.  I know how to do everything on that pic except those tiny grey bars on the two left graphs.  I've never thought to do something like that.  Can you explain simply how it is done?

P.s. Question 2...what does it say in red on the right hand side near the bottom?  the cut off part :)
/r/excelporn

EDIT: I posted this as a joke, but it actually exists.
Ok now make a gif!
it's not really sharing if you don't share anything.

no template, just an offhand mention of a tutorial site.
Nice clarity in the layout there. And thanks for the link to the dashboard tutorial. (I did have to downvote on principal for the super cringe of 'cakeday' though. soz)
There's no original thread per say. Only by collecting bits and pieces here and there have I been able to create this. The last part was inspired by one of [Chandoo's dashboard tutorial](http://chandoo.org/wp/2008/09/10/kpi-dashboards-graphs-excel/) though.
Thanks. Mostly random figures but think I managed to remove anything that would point to my company.... 
Thanks. The grey bars, which show total target for the week, on the left are dependent on the total value of 1-6. The grey bars shrink as 1-6 increase while total value stays the same. It's all set up as a stacked bar where the formula for the decreasing bars is simple (Target - Sum of 1-6).

The red part just says 'sort', an instruction to the user. The table can be sorted in ascending or descending order by clicking the arrows on the left. This was a bit of an overkill on my part but felt like doing it to challenge myself and learn.

The radio buttons highlights that specific target/column and sorts it depending on the above.

I'm a mod, planing on making it awesome :p


You had me until you said "soz" ;)
That's pretty darn awesome then, mate! 

Chandoo inspired all of my current dashboards. My managers also praised me for my awesome dashboards that they didn't even know were possible. 

I built a KPI tracker all thanks to Chandoo and this reddit community.

/r/excel truly is special.
Ah cool... What I was trying to find out is how did you make them?  I they little specially formatted column graphs or what?
Downvotes for everyone!  :-D
