[META] Weekly Excel Challenge
Sounds awesome ! But I'd like it to be in 2 categories :

1. Using macros

2. Not using macros
why not set up "/r/dailyexcel" so the threads would be available longer with less dross in between?
Sounds interesting. Would prove an interesting way to force myself to learn some of the obscurer functionality I usually side step.
That would be fun
Definitely. I'd be happy to contribute.

Also, we should try to encourage new users, and people of all skills. Best to make it something challenging, yet not out of reach. Or something along those lines.
I'm game.
Yes, please. I think this could help the subreddit become more active and interesting. 
Fantastic idea
I would love this.
Sounds like fun.
Sounds interesting to me... I'm definitely more of a macro guy, not so good with the front end, but if either method  is allowed I'd definitely give it a shot.
Yeah, this sounds like a great learning opportunity to compare how my method of obtaining proper output compares to others. 
great idea.  will help me become a better excel user! 
Yay
In
I thinks this sounds great, we can sticky/distinguish the post so that it will stay towards the top for the sub, and also add links to the side bar.

I am game... 
I'd love this
I'm in!
Love it as well! Might be difficult as a contest, how do submissions, winners, etc.. work, especially with ppl in dofferent timelines. I think it's be fun even if it's not a race to see who finishes first.
Awesome, count me in. I would love to learn more and what a great way to do it.
In for sure
I'm keen.
I would be in. I'm decent with excel (not macros or VBA, but decent with shortcuts). WSO does a cool thing where they give out a non-formatted spreadsheet with a list of things to do, people upload their fasted times. I like this idea but you could do it with just a data set and say, "with this data you need to complete these functions, and format it in this manner, then upload a video with the comment as how you completed it." That would be both a challenge, and learning experience. I could probably do well in a beginner, non-macro category.
That sounds really nice! A good was to boarden your excel knowledge!
Can't wait to see how that turns out! I'll be an happy contributer if my skills can get me there!
1st idea posted [here](http://www.reddit.com/r/excelchallengeideas/comments/1m4w8u/idea_for_9162013/)
Absolutely, I could see nearly all macro challenges falling into the difficult category
I think this is a great idea
If you did this, you could disabled posts, and just allow comments to the "challenges".
Thanks! See my edit on the original post
You would always win! :D 
I was thinking challenges could be categorized by difficulty and posted on different days or that each challenge could have subgoals of varying degrees of difficulty.  Definitely want it to be interesting for all skill levels though!
With karma of course. Everyone can upvote the correct answer.
I would steer away from creating another sub for the challenges (for now).  I think you will get much more participation if you left the challenges here and we just sticky them each week...
Yes, those are good ideas.
It would also be interesting to have some specification around the goals.  Are we aiming for something particularly easy to understand?  Something that runs quickly?  Something portable between versions of Excel (line counts could be an issue)? etc...
