TIL that control+alt+v pastes special
[deleted]
I usually hit alt,e,s but sometimes misfire and hit one of the keys surrounding e. Good tip!
Amazing! Thank you :)
Edit: I actually tried this and wondered why it wasn't working. Turns out Evernote is hijacking this button configuration. Not sure if it's a default key combo or one that I manually assigned to Evernote.
I use the list key.  

List, s, v

List works wonders in excel.   [It's the key between ctr + Alt on the right](http://icdn2.digitaltrends.com/image/windows-screenshot-625x1000.png)
Haha I've used a macro of Shift+Ctrl+v for pasting special for years...That's embarrassing.

Edit: Well my macro pastes values so I guess I am saving keystrokes. Did not know this though.
Ctrl alt v, v, rtrn. Saved me so much time
excel noob here. can't you just create a macro for that?
mmmm keystrokes... thank you
On windows machines:

Menu key, P, V for paste values.

Menu key, P, F for paste formulas.
Control-cmd-v, 8 x Tab, Return.
alt+e+s+v for paste special is the shit.  sounds like a lot, but it's not at all.
I just made a little button macro that pastes values... 1 click
It is the default key combo. Same thing happened to me and it was very frustrating...
why macro a macro for something native in excel?
I don't have a mac, but in windows letters are infinitely more useful than TAB.
V - values, F - formula
D - Add, M - multiply, I - divide
Don't forget ctrl+c then alt, e, s, w to copy column width!
[deleted]
mm. good point. but if you didn't know it was native, or if some other paste function you wanted wasn't native, you could still build a macro for something like that easily, right?

Excel for Windows is more featureful than Excel for Mac.  If Excel were the only application I run, I'd have a PC.
Yea, me either, so also assigned a shortkey key to the macro as well... so I use Ctrl+Q to execute it as well like so:  http://i.imgur.com/1KHRx3C.jpg



Speaking of macros, I have a large spreadsheet I made for Borderlands 2. How do I paste from one sheet to another keeping the conditional formatting? It copies and pastes now fine, but all the conditional formatting just defaults to the max. Just curious.
Yup. I'd usually make a macro to paste values as ctrl+e or something similar.
Right click on the name of the worksheet, create a copy of that worksheet, move it over to the new workbook. 
Well, it's a bit more involved than that. I have a macro that updates each page depending on the data I add or delete (basically gun attributes). I'll send you a copy if you'd like to see exactly what I'm talking about. I've found nothing on Google that helps.

Why not just make a copy of the file itself, then delete everything you don't need?
record copy formatting and paste formatting into the macro you're recording. 
I'm constantly changing it, updating. Nevermind.
