What are some data analysis projects I can do with Excel in my own time to build up knowledge?
Work through an ExcelIsFun series, a great, free resource to explore the possibilities of Excel.

http://www.youtube.com/user/ExcelIsFun

IMO, PivotTables are one of the most powerful tools for exploring an unfamiliar data-set.  Experimenting a little with PivotTables is one good place to start.
Maybe this won't be great for showing employers, but analyze something you enjoy. Example: I am currently building a massive spreadsheet for March Madness statistics. The goal is to input a ton of data then create different calculations as I see fit to show me the percentage chance of a team getting to X round in the tournament. After that I would like to get even more data and analyze Final Four teams and what made them unique. I know history says I probably won't find much but it's certainly easier to do these things if you enjoy them.
I always noticed a lack of budgeting spreadsheets for concurrent, foreign currencies.  For example, you are an expat and have bank accounts in three countries.  Your spouse works remotely for a company in a England.  You could create a formula to show a monthly or yearly budget that could be affected by different exchange rates for different portions of the budget.  You would only need to create a few formulas and focus on organizing the rest of the data.  This is how I started teaching myself Excel.  I'm still very poor at it.  
My buddy does data analysis on the NHL stats and that governs his fantasy hockey choices. If recall correctly, he's been the top of his group for 6 seasons straight.
Do you know of anyone in your circle of family and friends that are entrepreneur or that owns a small retail business? It's so much better and much more fun if you're to play with real data. 

If you know of a friend who's in retail, or maybe you work in retail yourself right now. Get access to company or individual employee's stats or sales and stack rank them using a sales / hour metric and try to devise a way to improve productivity by monitoring the metric week over week. You can then claim a % improvement on performance managing the crew. ... just a thought.
Thanks for the tip! 

I'm not too shabby at working with PivotTables; what I'm specifically looking for is a project I can work on that I can then explain or demonstrate when I interview to give concrete proof that I have experience working with data. 

I will check out the link you sent, thanks again.
That sounds like an interesting idea (and I am, coincidentally, an expat), thank you.
I've thought about doing that with my fantasy basketball team, but I'm stumped on where to get the data.
This is interesting. I think I'll talk to my TL about the possibilities.
I just poked around a little on their site and found this... bummer!

"Our stats are not available for download for either academic or personal use. They are for viewing and enjoying on NBA.com/Stats"

I did stumble on this and it makes mention of "raw stats". 
http://www.dougstats.com/

I didn't verify the info though, at work. Best of luck to you in your data-mining. 

One last thing, because I love climate data, try this:

http://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/cdo-web/
http://82games.com/
What line of work are you into currently? I might be able to put it into context. 
