Careers involving Excel
Excel is the workhorse of the financial industry. Junior investment bankers spend 20 hours a day developing intricate cash flow models. However competency with excel is just assumed and employers are looking for other skills. It's far more important to know what you want excel to do rather than how to use excel well.
Excel is the workhorse of the engineering industry (mechanical, aerospace, structural, etc.) Junior engineers spend 20 hours a day developing intricate models. However competency with excel is just assumed and employers are looking for other skills. It's far more important to know what you want excel to do rather than how to use excel well.

I stole Thexorretor response and changed it for my industry. I think you'll realize that Excel is such a versatile tool that it's used all over the place.
Anything Planning/Forecasting. Avg salary depends on industry and location. 
* Business/Data Analyst
* Accounting
* Administrative (Basic)
* Financial Analyst


There are companies that hire "Excel Experts" but those are far and few between... 


Excel is extremely versatile for solving most business related problems. However, there comes a point where the problems are sufficiently complex that they'd be better off programmed via a different method. Relying solely on Excel is fraught with pitfalls. Just ask [these guys] (http://www.newyorker.com/online/blogs/johncassidy/2013/04/the-rogoff-and-reinhart-controversy-a-summing-up.html)

Truth be told, the business world is full of spreadsheets with fundamental errors that often go unnoticed but can have substantial effect on business outcomes. That's why it is critical to trust but verify.
Look at back office roles in Banking. VBA roles can command good money but it's one of those industries where you need experience to get experience. 
There are a lot of jobs that require excel work.  I would look into the billing/accounting industry.  Salary is going to be dependent on your experience of work (first) and mastery of excel (second).  Obviously your mastery of excel can lend you to be more experienced in the long run.

For example, I can do things in VBA that saves FTE's, and I have proven that in many of my jobs.  Therefore I have gained valuable experience, and my salary reflects that, as opposed to someone that can perform a standard VLookup.

And it's not always knowing the formula, or code -- it's knowing when you should use it.
I loved excel in college and creating macros. I took a couple extra classes to learn vba which I would highly recommend. Look for ad hoc projects or temp positions to get some experience. I got my current job as an analyst for a major bank and mortgage servicer by doing this. Look for jobs where processes can be automated. I got a 25% raise just because I became the guy in my company that now automates processes using vba. I make 57k now starting in an entry lvl job. Learn SQL too.
Right now I am a "data specialist" for a credit card processing company.  We mostly use Excel and Access.
There will be a lot of people with a variety of opinions on this topic. 

My personal experience is that many many jobs are available if you have mastered/good experience with Excel. Most of these jobs are in finance/accounting but there are a few that are outside the box..

Some have mentioned that it is far more important to have the related professional skills such as a degree in finance. While I agree having a degree to accompany Excel skills is very important, almost all of my advancements in my career have pivoted on my mastery of Excel

In the Portland area I think if you have mastered Excel you should expect to find a job for anywhere between $40k up depending on your related experience/education.

It sounds like you might be a data junky more than a finance nerd and in that case SAAS and SQL might be a better/supplemental path for you. 
[deleted]
any data orientated career..finance, marketing, mhmm certain scientific fields?
It's huge in pretty much any engineering field.
Actuary here. I spent about 10 hours today in excel doing data analysis. Most of us have a minimum of 5 workbooks open at a given time.
Google "financial modeling."
Financial Analyst here in a Bank (CPA and Comp Sci background). Spend a lot of time in either a database or Excel. You might need to learn VBA so you can get that info from one place to another quickly.  If you know Sumif & Vlookup you are doing better than a lot of accountants.
[deleted]
Without VBA there's really nothing to talk about.
This.  
Excel -- while beautiful -- is simply a tool to explore & express data.  The real value is understanding the inputs and the outputs.
Risk management / insurance here. Cannot emphasise enough that the money is in knowing what you want excel to do (and for that read the business) rather than how to make it happen. 

You can, however, learn loads you just have to understand why you are being asked to do it. 
Thank you. For modelling, do you use any add-ins for excel to help the modelling process? Or specifically, what do you do in modelling?
> Junior engineers spend 20 hours a day (week) developing intricate models.

not true at all for a usual mech/ electro/ etc. engineer.
Do you know of any pre-requisites required to go into such a field? Or is knowledge of excel sufficient enough?
The thing is data analysts require knowledge of SQL, or at least most. I think that will be quite a ways away from my current situation. Though I think I would love such a job
FTE = Full Time Equivalent
I have, oddly enough, never used vlookup
Wow sounds amazing! Congrats! This is the sort of opportunity I'm looking for. I actually took a course in VBA a couple years back but my amazing short term memory loss does not help
Dude. That's actually exactly what happened to me. I started at the same salary at a finance company as a reporting analyst. I automate processes integrating Excel/VBA/SQL.
I've seen many job postings about "Data Analysts" but they all require knowledge of SQL. If I wanna explore into this field, it feels like I'll need to learn many things first like SQL, macros on excel, vba and Access...
I do Productivity and Operations analysis primarily on my Excel skills for a clinical research firm.
Wow that's awesome! I know someone in Actuarial accounting as well. Don't you need a license/pass an exam or something like that? How did you get into the field???
Instructions not clear. Am currently seated on a black leather sofa. 
Thanks for the feedback. Yea, a lot of my friends don't know vlookup. I'll check out VBA 
Thanks for your input, I really appreciate it!
So out of all the things to learn, them being VBA, Access, macros on excel, SQL, do you recommend me to learn VBA first? I was thinking learning the basis of Access first then maybe venture into VBA
That is not true... there is very little that you can do with VBA that you can't do with formulas... 

hey i want to get started in risk analysis (Credit, insurance, etc) mind if i PM you?
Numerical modeling based on the generally accepted practices/methodology in your industry. No addons except the VBA modules we have produced in house.

Edit: mMaybe a little more clarification, since I reread your comment and maybe you are misunderstanding the term "modeling."

Numerical modeling is an incredibly vast "thing." When I say that we use numerical models in excel I mean that we have millions of lines of data and equations that manipulate that data. It just another way to "do maths."

For me, it all eventually tells me how thick to make a wall in a nuclear plant.
I tend to use the solver add-on a fair bit, most of the simulation is done with Explicit Finite Difference (EFD), a method of numerical integration.
hyperbole
You are going to want a Business education. But I have seen all majors working in the field. You could even get into entry level stuff with just some community college background. You might even find a company willing to give you a shot with no post secondary education. If you have an Accounting background, you can probably get interviews. Brush up on Statistics and you will never be out of work. 
SQL is actually pretty easy man, you can understand what it does pretty much by reading through it ie:  
  
    SELECT Name, ProductNumber
    FROM Production.Product 
    WHERE ProductLine = 'R' 
    AND DaysToManufacture < 4
    ORDER BY Name ASC;

So you're going to return all the values under Name and ProductNumber for every data point in the table that matches the two criteria then order them by name ascending...
Don't be intimidated by SQL
Gotta start somewhere! 
SQL was developed to be easy to read and understand and Excel's data connections will write statements for you while you use the UI. Then you can learn by editing the created statements. Don't forget that SQL goes both ways, try to stick to read-only connections while learning.

If you can use SQL you can connect directly to data from Excel, Access is usually not necessary. But it is the go to (Wow I don't like typing "go to") for a lot of people, even when the info is already in a database.
 
  
SQL is worth learning.  At least the basics
Just freshen up on how to create loops and functions. The rest can be googled where you can almost always find examples of things you are trying to create. All you need to know is how to manipulate the code to fit what you want to accomplish.
They actually recognized your services?  Every time I do something like that they just smile like they just got something awesome for cheap.  I hate this.
Yes this job said "knowledge of SQL preferred."  When I applied I didn't really know much SQL at all, and I still don't.  You can get by in Access not really knowing it, though it does come in handy once in a while.  I also had no knowledge of VBA when I started but I'm getting pretty good now.

I should mention I also have a degree in Economics, so I think that helped me get the position.
I'm good at math, and it was a mathy degree that paid well. Got a BA in Mathematics, passed a couple exams and got a job. There are tons of tests that you are required to take (Usually takes 5-10 years to pass them all), but companies tie raises to the exams. Also, fyi, Actuarial Science and Accounting aren't really related fields, though Accountants use spreadsheets a lot as well.
First, macros and VBA are not separate topics; they are both sides of the same coin. If you learn VBA properly it will include treatment of macros. Access and SQL are really a completely different ballgame. Database knowledge is certainly valuable and marketable, but Excel is not a database package (although it is commonly used a flat-file database). Honestly it doesn't really make much of a difference whether you focus on VBA first, or Access and SQL first. Excel VBA can be used without any knowledge of Access or SQL of course, and Excel can be used in conjunction with Access or SQL without using any VBA.
There is an absolute shed load you can do with VBA that formulas alone can't achieve. 

But.. It's all too easy to find a VBA fix that a deft exceler can solve via formulas. 
Please tell me you are kidding. Nothing could be further from the truth.
Sure, feel free. 
If your entire comment history is you being a douchetard and you ask for career advice from someone from a non-throwaway account, you're gonna have a bad time.
>For me, it all eventually tells me how thick to make a wall in a nuclear plant.

You make that shit twice as thick as possible.  Then double it from there. :)
what? explain pls.
Do you have any good resources for learning it? I've checked out sqlzoo, etc. but I can't figure out if I've picked up enough to actually be competent or just a solid test taker
*sigh of relief* =)
If you can learn to do Excel/Access/VBA, then you can learn SQL. SQL is an amazing tool to know, and is useful/required in *many* careers, just like Excel. I work in IT, and I use both for planning/forecasting/reporting all the time. I'd say despite being in IT, my job is probably 35-40% business analysis. And I suspect lots of careers are like that.
if you can make loops, cases, and functions, you're going to be successful with 60% of tasks/projects you take on
Dam you have no idea how jealous I am of you. I wish I can get into a job with just Excel and learn VBA/Access in that company
>  I have no knowledge of VBA

I've been working with VBA for 15 years. Never code when you don't have to. No reason to reinvent the wheel. Every time we get a new VBA consultant, they'll spend hours coming up with this solution and be all proud of it. Then I'll go, "what about this feature?" It's soul sucking for that individual. 

Those are the stages of excel "development" imo:

1.  I can't use VBA, I do everything with absurdly complicated formulas
2.  I can make my own formulas! YAY!
3.  Just using VBA is simpler...
4.  Why is my spreadsheet so slow :( :( :(
5.  Hrm, if I mix VBA and formulas / built in methods I can speed it up by an order of magnitude

Sticking either to pure built in functions or pure VBA is a handicap IMO.
There may be a shed load, but when you are talking about the house, that is still a pretty small list of things.

Now I am not talk about automation, things like that, all that does it make the job easier.  VBA helps make that job easier, does not mean that it can't be done using formulas, helper columns, things like that, so yes, VBA will make it easier, but most things in VBA can be done without (if needed...)
Please explain.  Note I did say there "is very little"... so I did acknowledge that there are things that can't be done, VBA is an EXTENSION of Excel, Excel is designed to work with or without VBA.

Now don't get me wrong, I am one of the biggest advocates for VBA, and nearly solve everything using VBA, but I would challenge to find a use within EXCEL, that VBA can do, that you can't do without the use the VBA...
Check out this guy's comment history before you give him much advice...
hey, if you have a problem with me, PM me.
heuristics!
I learned by doing dude, sorry.  
  
I would say that your best bet to become a BAWS is here though:  
  
[LINK](https://www.edx.org/course/harvardx/harvardx-cs50x-introduction-computer-1022)
honestly w3schools, although typically criticized, still covers all the basics you would need to use SQL
Cool stuff, let's just say there's plenty of learning in my path, wherever it's leading towards
You should give it a shot!  Just say you are good with Excel and want to learn VBA/Access and I bet you could get a position.
Exactly my point, I do the same but never in a soul sucking way, not my style. 

/r/fearnotthewrath did clarify and is right, Excel and VBA compliment each other, and are both very powerful in their own right. I got my first VBA role in 1996 and still work with it to this day and if there's one thing I've learned, there are many way to skin a cat. It's identifying when you don't have to that is the art.
Without a good example I have a hard time following this.  If I have to choose between a few lines of VBA and a rube goldberg machine, I know which I'll choose.

If someone is throwing an absurd algorithm at something that can be done via obvious built in functions though, sure I get where you are coming from.
Who mentioned a house? And it depends on the size of your shed.

Simple fact is they work well together and yes, it is sometimes easy quick to code a solution that could have been achieved by using native features but to say 'very little', without the subsequent clarification, is not true.
Actually VBA is a programming language, you can't have a formula move an object around a sheet, you can't use formulas to create a lot of what is showcased here: [LINK](http://www.youtube.com/user/ExcelVbaIsFun/videos)  
  
EDIT: You can't have a formula open the CD tray or make the computer beep either lol...

User defined functions. 
Starting an instance of Word, for example.
Lol, had a read and he's going to have fun with me! Going to love my liberal, pro-gay comments. Even worse,  I've worked in government! Still, I'm happy to help anyone where I can, must be those lefty leanings :) 
get a life dude
Hahahhaha the ULTIMATE internet threat. "I'LL HAVE STRONG WORDS WITH YOU. **IN PRIVATE!**"
Yeah... and double that too (whatever that is)

Double EVERYTHING!!
OK...this isn't one of those soul crushing situations, but one person was telling a customer that the only way of inserting a blank line in between each line was through a VBA macro. When it's actually really easy to accomplish. 

>'very little', without the subsequent clarification, is not true.

I'll give you that...

Edit:  But by the same token, to say "Without VBA there's really nothing to talk about." is just ridiculous... 
If you read anything above, you will see that I said "very little"... most of what is shown there is the same thing just done differently... User Forms and buttons... but the fundamentals of the how the sheet pulls the the data and displays it... can.

And I know that VBA is a programming language, I am just trying to get the point across that VBA is not a must in any Excel job... that a lot can be done without the use of VBA, and some people use VBA as a crutch rather than working the built in formulas.

I have already acknowledged that Buttons, UserForms, automation type things, yes you need VBA but the core of the functionality is doable in formulas.

VBA is an extension of excel... not vise versa... 

Without even trying, I'm pretty sure the reason you can't move an object around on a sheet is due to the scope of the object and the fact that it would need to be accessed in the code for the sheet as opposed to a module which is where you have to define a UDF.  This is a pretty arbitrary line to draw IMO.
All UDFs are just simpler ways to do calculations, where you might not have to use a nested if, vlookup or whatever, but the calculations can still be done...
That is a bad example, most UDFs can be achieved with a formula, it is the other stuff VBA does that can't be replicated...
(Within)
just trying to keep it civil, this douche started shit for nothin'
You can use VBA to build something that transcends excel. You can write a video game with it.   
  
Don't get me wrong I am a fucking Wizard with formulas and most often use VBA for navigation and display of a workbook, I think our views on it are similar.  
  
I think most people view "VBA" as something to learn when really they should be learning the fundamentals of computer programming in general and that is why I replied to your post the way I did.
Maybe but you can't be sure of that. The set of UDFs is unbound. That is the idea of UDFs. Excel's functionality is finite. 
I'm not going through this again. 
I'm still happy to help.  Like I say, I work in Risk management / insurance.

There are lots of ways to get started - I'm UK based but I'm sure there are similarities given that it is an international market.

I trained through the "claims faculty" - I went to university and obtained a law degree. I found that easy enough as I had a family to support me and few commitments.  Those I know that had to balance work and kids found it a struggle and I have huge respect for them.

I then got a job looking at individual firms from a regulatory perspective.  Training was provided on the job but very specific to that field of work.

I studied for my practical legal qualification by night school while working full time and that was really hard, cost me my relationship at the time but money wise worked out well.

I then went into a law firm to defending companies from claims.  

I then got my current job which is in the risk management / insurance here.  This was a huge change as I have to identify population and group by risk.  This is much more along the lines that insurers think with calculating risk against severity and risk appetite.

I took my insurance qualifications by night school - again this is very hard on the family / relationships but was really needed as I really had a job without an established skill set to approach.

So ... This is a really interesting area of work that you can move into.  However, this is a highly regulated area of work in most western nations and so you are going to need appropriate qualifications.  

If you have money and support you can always find a full time course.  Pros - you can focus.  Cons - you are not getting experience in the field, money is tight.  

You can find a job in the industry and go for the night / weekend option. Pros - you'll earn while you learn, you'll gain experience and contacts in the industry, your learning will be relevant.  Cons - If you can make your relationships survive you have done well, can take a really long time if you do not already have a strong academic base in one of the core skills for this area (statistics / risk / legal / insurance).

Hope that helps.
When it comes to UDFs, Excel functionality is only limited by the number of rows you have, the number of columns, and your knowledge of Excel formulas...   A UDF combines already existing Excel functions and creates a nice clean way to display something that might take an extra column or two... (maybe 3 or 4)
Excel has no explicit Set Theory functions.
but couldn't the calculations still be done?
