Look what I got in the mail today!
[deleted]
Now go troubleshoot Outlook.
I find this amusing to be labeled as 'unsolved' lol. I did look at it! Doesn't that solve the post? 
This is cool, but how useful is it?
This is brilliant. I have been looking and in the UK I keep getting linked to an online course called Excel Essentials on Microsoft Learning, even after I've clicked on Specialist. Links:

http://www.microsoft.com/learning/en-us/mos-certification.aspx

https://www.microsoftelearning.com/eLearning/course.aspx?guid=0D3243AD-3790-4BE5-A327-0B9C2E3D7B3F

Does anyone in the UK know if this gives the same certification? Thanks guys!!
Welcome to the club mate :)
Congrats! 
Awesome!
What does it cost to take the test? I'm tempted to take it for kicks.
My local college was offering Microsoft Office classes. I had to take Microsoft Excel (The main class) and I had to take Microsoft Excel lab (Pretty much MOS prep. (Lots of tests)). Pretty much followed along in a text book, did the online stuff (it was an online course), and then at the end of the semester I scheduled with the college testing center and took it there.
You just solved my post! Thank you!
Hoping it will look good on my resume.
You can fold it to make origami cranes.
$50 for the test.
Can you take the test online or does it have to be with a college?
out of interest, are you a specialist on paper or in reality?

I considered taking the test and the questions I saw were relatively easy
They have testing sites 
You have to take it at the college (Or wherever they offer the test), but the test is on a computer.
Probably on paper for the most part.

For the test there aren't any questions, it gives you a document and tells you what to do. It was actually a pretty easy test.

With things like this it's mostly time and the number of projects you do that determine how experienced/good you are at Excel. I've only took 1 semester and haven't really done anything besides my class work. I'm good with my basics/intermediate stuff, but advanced stuff is were it ends.
is it true that the software used doesn't recognize keyboard shortcuts, so you have to use the mouse for everything?
Good stuff, well done. Must confess I love stuff like this on my 'in house' CV. Job wise experience seems more valued. 

'Expert' is hard to define. I'm considered an expert here as I can use Vlookup.  My definition of expert is very different! 
Umm, I'm not sure, I didn't use any. :P

I'm sure you can though, it looked like a full version of Excel.
He is probably a student with not prior job experience. Internship recruiters definitely appreciate skills like these in a resume. 
Absolutely agree - when starting out you just need something that catches the recruiters eye and a bit of luck. 

Source: I recruit for various grade of role. 
