Just checking in...
Hrm... only thing  I could think of might be some type of /bestof sort of archive.  When a frequent problem is solved well or explained exceptionally I might like seeing it in some type of hall of fame perm post that's linked on the side bar.  Mostly I just like solving problems for folks and wading through the uninteresting ones without fuss.
A few months back, there seemed to be a weekly excel challenge type thing to help people hone their skills. I unfortunately wasn't able to do it because I was studying for my CPA, however I would love to participate in it now that I'm done with that hell.

I know this would probably be a lot of work so, no big deal if it's no possible. Just a thought.

Thanks!
I seem to see a lot of posts that could be resolved using the newer (xl2007 and after) countifs/sumifs functions (with an s), they take multiple criteria for counting and summing. Maybe an faq?

I also feel [Ron DeBruin's site](http://www.rondebruin.nl/) deserves to be recommended on the sidebar. (I'm  not Ron.)
Tutorials at different levels.  There's a wide range of skills here, and I think that some people need "now click here" help, while others need more advanced VBA or functional help.  
I'm not sure if this is a good idea or not, but I'll throw it out there. How about tags for the type of problem. We could have tags for formulas, vba, pivot tables, and charts to help quickly identify where we can be useful. 
The big problem with this sub is the way people ask for help. They are forced to describe both their problem and their data with words.

It's bad enough just trying to understand the problem. Add not having a sample of the workbook and you can see supplying the right answer becomes cumbersome.

I sometimes spend 3/4 of my time reproducing OP's dataset and 1/3 producing the code/formulas necessary to get the proper results.




[deleted]
This sub has been an incredible help to me.   I'm trying to enter the real world as an actuary/finance guy, but I've never had any formal excel training.  This sub has helped me learn so much.  I now know how to record a macro, do basic things in VBA, and can use excel for a few clever things.  
Haha I think my GF could pass it for all the studying she helped me do.

Thanks for the welcome, but I'm not officially a member yet! I still need to finish up my credits and the two years required experience. But I'm a hell of a lot closer than I was this time last year.
It would be interesting to have a "Direct" feature - where you can contact a specific established member who is willing to provide support on specific areas such as formulas, VBA, basic instruction etc.

This may help reduce the number of people who have a specific but relatively common problem seen in a lot such as conditional formatting.

I can expand on this should it sound feasible.
I don't know if you guys are still keeping tabs on this thread, but does anyone know why _every_ thread gets 1 downvote relatively soon after being made? Is it just someone downvoting everything or is it part of the bot checking the threads or something?
This sub is really amazing. I have learned so much from it and it has become one of my favorites. I find it simply fantastic that some users go out of their way to solve problems and post the step by step in gif format! Also, everytime I use the search function I see some very good solutions to problems I have, some of which I can't even upvote because they've been archived. So, a best of archive is a really good idea to be implemented.
Absolutely this, I favorite my favorite posts then have to dig through my favorites to find them
Exactly this.  Reddit is so ephemeral, but Excel is very stable.   A good answer from 5 years ago is probably still valid today.   
I think the wiki might be a good place for this. Maybe we could hold a weekly "what's your best solution for [X]?" post and put the best answer into the wiki. We could start with a "what are the common questions?" post.
Yeah, the guy who was running it disappeared, it is a lot of work, but rethinking it gave me an idea.. Let me discuss it with the mod team and I'll get back with you...
How did you do on the exam?  Fun stuff eh?  2 years of my life.
There are several sites I believe that could be added to the list:

John Peltier [http://peltiertech.com]

John Walkenbach [http://spreadsheetpage.com]

Michael Alexander [http://DataPigTechnologies.com]

Roberto Mensa [https://sites.google.com/site/e90e50/]

...


I agree Ron has been a blessing for me using excel and outlook
I have thought about that, but the problem you run into is they might not know that they need help with pivot tables, or VBA, if they are asking a general question.
I understand that, which is why we have the reminders when people post, but still have yet to figure out a way to achieve this.

I mean we have the Add-In that will convert the tables for you, we have reminders, do you have any suggestions on how we might fix this?
Do you mind me asking how you found us?
>I can expand on this should it sound feasible.

Please do.. when you say "Direct" feature, you mind explaining a little more on how you think that might work?
Unfortunately there is no way for us to tell where the downvotes are coming from. With that being said I know the upvote/down vote algorithms throws in downvotes, for some reason or another, and those numbers are based how many and how fast things get up voted.

And there are people that just downvote if they think a question is not a good one... Some people just want to watch the world burn...
Sounds great! 

I may be able to help here and there with some stuff. I'm not really on the same level as you guys but I'm no novice either.
It was awful. I crammed everything in for 5 months, took all 4 in August and October and passed all 4. I wanted to die the entire time though. I (a grown ass man) must've broken down crying at least 10 times throughout the course of it because of stress. Hell I had my first panic attack studying for the stupid thing....thank G-d that shit is over.
I agree that the OP may not be experienced enough to know how to categorize the problem, but if we had a General and/or Unknown category that might help with that situation.

This is kind of a selfish suggestion I'm making.  I've reached a point where I spend more time looking for places to be helpful than asking for help, but I know my limitations:

VBA: I'm pretty good

Formulas: I'm decently proficient

Charts: I'm almost totally inexperienced

Pivot Tables: I'm a danger to myself and others

I just thought this might help me more quickly identify somewhere I could be of use.
Can reddit subs have default text?

If so you could produce a blank reddit-format 5x5 table as default text. It would take no time at all for the user to delete if not required, but would prompt them to add more detail.

I often type out the ----|---- business, only to find that due to a typo, it fails to render. If it were there already, I'd be more tempted to use it.
Imagine a sticky where reddit effectively "advertises" people who are willing to help on a regular basis.

You list their username, and what areas they specialise in/can help, and what dates/times they are willing and able to help in. Then there's a "Send direct message" feature, where you can directly mail them to ask for their help, instead of creating a thread.

It's basically a list of people with their speciality who are willing to help with a "Send mail" button next to them.

e.g.

/u/epicmindwarp  - Specialising in Excel Formulas. 

Qualifications: Microsoft Certificed Excel Expert

**Trusted Member**: Available: 11am - 9pm UTC. 
[Send Message](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=epicmindwarp)
:( Maybe it's just the reddit thingymajigger that does it automatically. 
I remember it well.  I'm old and we could only take it twice a year.  I always said if my dog could write she could have passed it because of the amount of studying.  


Welcome to the club!
Like I said I have thought about it but have not been able to formulate an effiencient way to achieve this, I use the quick links (unsolved) almost exclusively unless I am browsing on my tablet and want to see what I "missed".

I like the idea and will bring it up to the mod team for discussion .
Well we added the excel add-on to help with that, but I will look into it.  I think the answer is we can't set the default text, but will look into it.
Isn't there already a directory somewhere? I vaguely remember filling in my details to some kind of form or sheet when I first became active here.
I kinda feel like this idea might be more successful from a different angle... The thing with direct messaging somebody is that if they're not available for whatever reason, the person with the question is just waiting around while, had they posted publicly, the rest of the community might have somebody who is free and able to answer the question.

I do like the idea of adorning people with their qualifications in some way, though. Like how /r/askscience user flair shows peoples' area of expertise. We'd need some sort of labelling convention though, I think.
Hi Fearnotthewrath.. Eagerly awaiting an idea for weekly challenge, or even a monthly challenge :)

Thanks!
We could offer the empty-table-text for copying/pasting on the submission page or sidebar.
That was a "Registration Form".
Ok. Doesn't really matter what it was called. I just remember it having most of this information in a spreadsheet or a table. Things like skill level, location, how often you're around etc. So I'm thinking why not modify that and make it more readily available? Unless it wasn't here and I'm getting mixed up with something else. Or simply remembering it wrong. 
