Announcement: Change in new post policy
I think this is a good idea, particularly links to external content with absolutely no text  in the thread, and the wrong flair as well.

However, given the new influx of new users who are titling their threads with a question - (some of whom I am responsible for - my bad), I don't mind as much because sometimes it's all you need to decide whether you can help with a query or not. 

New or inexperienced users may not be able to name their threads as comprehensively as the more experienced users can because they're looking for a quick solution. Rejecting their thread for a question in the title seems a bit too harsh to me.
I wish we had a place for users to upload modules/classes/forms.  Think of it as git for a subrredit
Can we make a new posting ~~rule~~ suggestion?

* OP should *try* to be on-line for the first 1 hour after posting to answer questions. 
* Due to quick response times of fellow redditors, many OPs dont reply until ALOT later, especially when the solution has already been posted, or we need OP to respond.

Just a thought =)
I agree, rejecting the thread would be harsh, and completely unproductive to our purpose.

For that reason, we would be taking a far gentler approach for users seeking help. Usually just asking for editing further information into the body, or maybe just letting it slide! 

The downside is that we could end up with spammers "Asking a question" and linking to their ad-ridden site. As mentioned, this will be somewhat subjective until we can really get a good handle on it.
I've been looking for a solution to this problem; also for uploading spreadsheets. I guess we could make a git for code, though, that's a good idea.
I'm not sure I like this so much. While I do find it frustrating that we can put a fair amount of effort into answering questions just to be talking to thin air, I don't like the idea of putting restrictions on people coming to look for help. I could see it likely that someone posts a question and has to go somewhere for a few hours, and wants to come back to some potential answers. I think I've probably even done that myself.

When I see questions with what I presume are good answers or with follow-up questions, I always switch the topic flair to "Waiting for OP"
I say prevent linking to external sites from the title altogether. That way you **have to** provide some sort of text in the body with the link. 
I have some webspace, we could (maybe) get something set up just for /r/Excel... ill look into it...
Okay, maybe rule was the wrong word. 

A posting recommendation? Added next to the posting rules?

* "We suggest that you..."

So people keep an eye on the thread if they are able too, instead of disappearing. That way, atleast some posts will get a faster OP response but those who are unable to do so are free to leave.
That will happen when we remove link posts.
We make any progress on this? I think this would be really cool. Would love to see some of the sweet modules you guys have written and I have a few cool ones to share :)
It's not a bad suggestion, maybe we need to update our wiki with guidelines for better chances of posting success.
In a round about way yes and no... (Gotta love those non-answers).

I have been testing a few open source solutions and have not found one that I have been happy with, at least none that I feel would be the equivalent to a git or sourceforge  site...

Still have a few more options as well as moving towards a paid solution, which is the last thing I want to do, but may end up being the direction I have to go...
Just FYI, I have not forgotten about this.  I still have yet to find a good viable solution that we can use.
