(X-Post /r/gifs) Make your tables more effective. This may help one of you!
It may look nicer for a presentation, but "removing repetition" makes the table useless for analysis.  After doing that if you sort the table in any way (ie by date) you lose all association to the first column. 
what's wrong with calibri?
These are good design tips, but tables aren't made to look nice, they're made to organize data.
Calibri size 10, centered vertically, 15 row height, window zoomed to 85%. Nothing cleaner/smarter looking in excel
Any other font suggestions?

I like Ubuntu's fonts, especially monospace for numbers.  

At least Calibri is a 21st century font.  A co-worker sends me spreadsheets in Arial, so 20th century!
"Please, no more Calibri" cracks me up.  I've never been a fan of Calibri.  I dislike it as much as Comic Sans.  Professionally, I respect Times New Roman in Word documents and Arial in Excel documents.
It looks like in your post  you did not specify which version of Excel you are running.

Please be sure to edit your post to include this so that we are able to better help you with your specific problem.  If you have received this message in error, please disregard.


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Fexcel) if you have any questions or concerns.*
You don't need to get rid of data, that is silly.  You use conditional formatting to turn the font color of repetitive data to the background color.  Appear blank, prints and PDFs as a blank, but the data is still there.
I just make the repetitive titles font color white.  So you get the best of both worlds - visually looks good, but still allows pivot tables.
I would disagree.  We remove repetition where I work, and it makes the analysis cleaner and more presentable, while still maintaining association.  

Provided the repetitive information is lumped together, association is not lost IMO.  My firm has design aesthetics similar to this, and I find it a much improved layout than other firms I have worked in the past.  
Calibri isn't terrible, but Segoe UI is objectively nicer.

I think the original creator is objecting to its overuse simply because it's the Office default. Which I wouldn't count as valid unless you're trying to differentiate your presentation.

At which point manually adjusting spacing and styling is reasonable. But I don't think I would be doing that without some sort of systemic method.
I've never used data tables for presentation.  I pull way too much crap in there in order to create all the various analysis.
I would disagree as well.  Tables are part of the presentation, and therefore should be made with the intent to make them as professional, clear and concise as possible. 

Yes, you can just provide a table that's thrown together in the top left of a printed page and get the same information, but at the end of the day,  what seperates you from the person who wants your job, or who you are competing against, isn't going to be the answer, it's the presentation.  

Everything you do, whether it's how you dress, what you say, or the excel table you provide, should always, time permitting, look nice and professional.   
Arial is the one! Go Arial!.. simplistic, perfect in every way.  Calibri says "I don't know how to change fonts"
Could you give an example of how you use the conditional formatting to hide duplications.
Good luck using pivot tables...
I think both of you have valid points.  Pivot tables are great for aggregating data that requires substantial calculation, but you can develop some nice tables to pull data itself.
A table shouldn't be part of your presentation.  Sure, the table layout can be useful for organizing some data in a presentation, but that's not the ~~point~~ of a table.  
What am I, a farmer? Give me that Times New Roman. It's all about the serif.
I love Arial. enough said.
Or equations, references, etc.
Is Powerpoint part of a presentation?  Is the location part of your presentation?  Once again, it's all opinion, but anything you use, should aid your presentation.  
I assure you, I use pivot tables regularly, and use equations and formulas and lookups, etc. The tables I create are used for presentations as well as calculations, and I don't have to refresh anything in order for them to be updated and dynamic.

Bottom line, not all examples are applicable to every situation, and if there's one thing I love about excel, is that there are several ways to get the same result.  What works for me in my line of work, maybe isn't applicable or necessary in yours.  Don't immediately discount something simply because you don't need it, and don't assume yours is the only way it can be done.  
