Is a Microsoft Certification in Excel Worth It?
its ok on the resume, and a good general knowledge check of all features across excel.

nothing more, nothing less.  
I think it can't hurt a resume and it could interest someone or be a tiebreaker at some point in the process, especially if it is a high level, like Expert. Given the lack of Excel skills I've seen around me lately, I'd definitely be interested in knowing more about a certified Expert candidate. 
We once hired a girl who claimed to have an MBA and certifications in the entire Microsoft Office suite.

One day I asked her to divide one number by another, but she had no idea how to formulate that in a cell. Another day I asked her to multiple a number of hours by a billing rate to get a total project budget, she replied, "multiply... do I hit the star thing over the 8?" The final straw in her employment was the day that I walked passed her desk, glanced at her screen and saw, "where is the [client] monthly report" typed into the Excel help window.

So, no, I don't trust certifications when I interview people anymore.
I did back in the day with Excel 2003 and it didn't help me at all.  Granted, my situation may have been very different than your own.
I got the first level "Specialist" in excel and word while I was still in high school (FBLA) I haven't noticed anything extraordinary coming from it, but it was fun to brag to peers.
I was speaking with someone that was bragging about their Excel certification.  I asked him about his VBA skills, he had no idea what VBA was.  

Now I am not sure if this person didn't have the certification and was lying, or if the certificate was that much of a joke it allowed that never heard of VBA to get certified, but it is questionable.  
I think it would help when applying for a job with a different company. Not that it would get you the job but might help you get into the interview.  
Speaking as an MOS certified individual, who's also an MCT (Microsoft Certified Trainer), it's generally seen as desirable to have Excel knowledge in the professional workplace. Showing credentials that you are proficient in it certainly doesn't hurt, either.

No certification is a guarantee of skill, but you can have a PhD and still be a murdering psychopath. So, take that as you will. :)
My own experience as an employee is in favour of the MOS syllabus, but against the certification.

I bought the text book for about two hour's pay, and studied at home, but never took the exam. I described myself as an expert in excel on my CV, and got a job that by chance doesn't routinely use it. All of my bosses regularly use excel at moderate-to-advanced level, and often come up against problems that are covered by the MOS syllabus. I've been able to help in real-life practical ways that have been worth significantly more than the certificate might have been.

For me the certificate would be superfluous. Although it attempts to solve the problem that anyone can say, "I have experience using excel", the exam can be coached to such an extent that it doesn't reliably solve that problem. For internal progression within a company, best option for proving excel skills is just to be available to help your colleagues.
It looks great on your CV (resume) - I have had one for a few months now. 

However it's application and recognition is limited. 

If the manager hiring you is quite thick - then yes! Otherwise, impact is limited. But it's good to have your Excel skills recognised on paper.
If I interview you, you will receive a basic excel, ppt, word quiz.  Cert or not, you'll pass  or fail the quiz or at least give me an understanding of your skill level. 

I never take the resume at face value. It's simply there to provide me with talking points to question you on. If you tell me you have a doctorate in computer science and saved your last company $1M, you better tell me how you accomplished it, the various roles / responsibilities of you and the people on your teams and the challenges you faced. Get ready to answer the question "Why?" 5 times if I suspect you of bull-shitting. 
I used to administer those exams to my non-profit Excel students and am very ambivalent about them. I do not think, they meant too much.  I would say, if your resume is a bit weak on the credentials side, by all means, get it.  It does not hurt.  It also boosted the self-esteem for some of the folks who passed it.  Another benefit is you have to learn something, as you are preparing for the test, and that is always valuable.  On the other hand, I found that even though someone has that certification, their skill may not necessarily be that high. It takes more than a test to really get Excel into one's "system." 
It looks like in your post  you did not specify which version of Excel you are running.

Please be sure to edit your post to include this so that we are able to better help you with your specific problem.  If you have received this message in error, please disregard.


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Fexcel) if you have any questions or concerns.*
I never know how to classify myself on excel skills.  I used to say intermediate but I've found that people that can just do moderate calcs and formatting consider themselves intermediate.  From boards like this I know that I'm no where close to being an expert but I have never worked with anyone that knew more.
I always ask some simple questions; name 5 formulas you use regularly.  name 10 formulas you know by heart.  

If they do not know a formula, or what a formula is, their skill is below what I need. 
So she probably never took the certification
I haven't experienced quite this bad, but nearly every person I've interviewed who listed some sort of excel certification hasn't been able to actually show me how to do anything.  Some couldn't even apply a filter to a column.

I no longer trust any resumes.
Omg ...you could have had me.  I'm pretty much the guru for my company.  I can make Excel cook dinner for you.

If there are people like that out there, I need to really emphasize my knowledge.
VBA isn't part of the MOS certification. While quite useful, VBA isn't a requirement for being an intermediate, or even advanced, Excel user.

I'm MOS-Master certified and teach the classes. VBA is discussed, but not a requirement.
Is an Excel '97 certification worthwhile?
This really is an open ended relative question.  My resume lists Excel, but quantifying that is a little bit more involved.  

I consider a Microsoft MVP that answers question over at Microsoft answers forum to be a 10 on a scale of one to 10. An example is [Ron Debruin](http://mvp.microsoft.com/en-us/mvp/ron%20de%20bruin-5663).  The guy is amazing.  

a new user that is able to save a file, edit in a cell, add a range (A1+A2), change font, etc. is a 1 on a 1-10 scale.  

I once took a test at a temp agency and I was rated an expert answering all questions correctly.  At the time I didn't know a single formula, never heard of VBA, or pivot tables, but I could do basic things; insert cells, color a range, change font, etc.  

When asked in an interview always qualify the scale of 1-10.  I am now at least a person that goes to websites and answers questions.  

   
That's really good advice. I will be using this next time I interview someone.
Where you work they actually use tables? Sounds like a fantasy land.
Sad thing is, this is the precise reason why I haven't sought one.... if you need a piece of paper to show how awesome you are at something... chances are you aren't.
Why are you replying to a bot? 
I hope so
In the interview for the job I currently have I said "I know Access.  I can make it work.  I can make Excel sing."
If that is a one i work with a lot of decimals. So many people struggle with basic sums
I would go a step further and present a fictional example, and see if they can use the formula names in a sentence. Use any of the questions on this subreddit. 

Interviewer: "Give me an example of a situation in which you might use COUNTIFS()? What other approaches would also work in this situation?"
[deleted]
http://i.imgur.com/jpBOs0t.jpg
Well that's easy everyone knows that sumproduct is better than countifs....but really this is a good follow up question to the previous one.
Considering I don't have a college degree?   [slathers it on thick like Nutella]
I have an associates with an emphasis on "ethnic studies". Tabled and charted our financial summary because our "analysts" never heard of tables apparently. Might as well wipe your ass with your degree if you are Barney Fife with a spreasheet.
