[META] I don't like the AutoModerator.
It is merely one of the useful things that it does.

For example, one of the things it does is automatically sets the flair to unsolved on each thread. This one, however, should be set to discussion...

Also, if the version is irrelevant, or has been edited in, I usually delete AutoMod's comment. Not sure if the other mods do or not.
Well the 3 options are...

1. Remove the reminder
2. Have AM send a PM rather than make a post
3. Define the rule a little better

Ideas, comments, suggestions? 
I think most of us who are savvy enough to be posting answers on here have a decent idea about what differences there are in the more recent versions.  From v2007 to v2013, MOST of the feature changes are not something which is typically used heavily.

Where that's NOT the case, I often preface my reply by "if you have this version...." it the version isn't specified.  I don't think it's that big of a time waste to not have the AM.  If I had to.vote on the three options below, I wohld vote for a PM going to OP.
Couldn't agree more!
I hate automod in almost every sub, especially ones with such a low volume of submissions like this one. Get rid of it.
Thanks for the info!  Managing the flair does seem like something that it would be well suited for.  I've appropriately updated mine, hadn't thought of that at the time.
Remove the reminder.

I personally yet to run into a situation where it has affected the solution I provided.
What's the point? If it's really critical, people can ask for the version. Like most automods, the concept is OK, but in practice it's a waste of time and causes more problems than it solves.
Yours is a valid complaint though, it's really annoying when it bugs the OP about a version when it's irrelevant, but it's also really helpful for *all* of the repliers to know what version is being worked with so that *potential* solutions offered could work, even if the best fit response doesn't care about the version.

Also, it saves a lot of time when the OP's version is a mac version.
SUMIFS comes to mind, right off the bat.
Can you explain how it causes more problems?  This is just a simple reminder for people to say what version of Excel they are using, I would not go so far as to say it is causing more prolems than it solves.

In the case of /r/Excel that is actually quite the oppitisite, and solves a lot of problems...

I know people are all up in arms after the /r/technology stink, but /u/Automoderator only does what it is told to do...
Agreed, that will be affected.

But what is the alternative to a SUMIF in 2003?
Array formula. This is probably the most common instance when version matters to the answer. 
