Are you too scared of being caught playing 2048 at work? Play it in Excel... and your boss will think you are working the hardest in your life;)
You son of a bitch.
Post of the year in /r/excel.  
Someone give this man a medal. 
After 20 seconds...I want conditional formatting for the numbers to be colored.  I'll be adding that in. Otherwise...I thoroughly enjoy this.
I got to 4096 and deleted my bookmark. You will *not* drag me back into that game.
Perfect! Just what I need to make sure my utilization stays low. >:| HOW COULD YOU DO THIS TO ME?!?!??
ok got it, how do you play the game now???
Wow, great work! 

Small adjustments I made to enhance playability: center align the cells of the game board, and add dotted border lines to all cells of the game board. 
I'm a productivity analyst, and all of you are busted.

But fuck if this ain't brilliant.
This is how China breaks the western nations economy
How does this work!? Excel is amazing. Well done haha
Wow! You're so awesome!
20.48 uBit /u/changetip private
Good post, just one problem with this version of the game, you are currently generating 50% 2s and 50% 4s (with a rand between function)

the 4s should theoretically only happen 10% of the time according to the original game.

Love your work though!
I approve this message
Can not access dropbox at work, would someone mind emailing it to me? I will send you my email addy.
This game might just make me hate reddit. How am I suppose to accomplish anything in life now that I know this game exists? Evil, I tell you! Pure evil!!!
Out of curiosity, has anyone tried the Tap2Tap game I mentioned in the Steering sheet? I would be really grateful for all your comments... Thanks in advance!
My Friday afternoon, and frankly my entire life, thanks you.
What the heck is 2048?
Lolz
Here is a 3D version of 2048, Excel style

http://www.spreadsheet1.com/2048-game-version-for-excel.html

Bad moves can be undone and gameplay can be reviewed
Nice work indeed :) Btw I'd like to share with you my new favorite version of 2048 - 3072. And for those who don't have smartphones with AndroidOS ;) Enjoy http://3072.blooplace.eu/
You're welcome:)
> You BRILLIANT son of a bitch.

There.
I had conditional formatting in one of the previous versions, but then.... it stopped looking like financial statements :)
I, too, am unfamiliar with ~~Ambassador Spock~~ this game
Power of macros (or visual basic) - Excel can really do everything. Just accountants fooled us into thinking that it was designed for calculations and not for doing cool stuff;)
Oh, didn't know that... I will have to release a patch ;)
Just reach the 2048 tile - you will be able to say that you achieved something in life... ;)
2048 was a famous game right now.  The goal of the game is to combine numbers of 2^n and reach to 2048.
I think I might be reformatting this a little to look more like our reports :)
I'm just going to use alternating red/bold text so I know if two numbers match up real quickly.  
You have to merge the tiles: 2 with 2 to create 4, 4 with 4 to create 8, 8 with 8 to create 16 and so on. You do this by sliding the whole board leftwards, rightwards, upwards and downwards by pressing the Arrow Keys. Every time you slide a new 2 or 4 appears. You finish the game when you have no moves left - the whole board is populated with numbers and you cannot merge any more tiles.
The promised patch - go to Visual Basic, and change line 250 in mod2048 from

rTile.Value = WorksheetFunction.RandBetween(1, 2) * 2

to

rTile.Value = IIf(WorksheetFunction.RandBetween(1, 100) <= 10, 4, 2)

(You can change the 10 to other values to achieve desired percentage of 4s).
Should I look it up, or will it become a major time-sink
Just don't include it afterwards by mistake in a presention to management:)
Good idea. This should not reveal what is really happening...
Done and done, thanks for the patch!
It depends on you :D

If you are into it, then search for it. 2048 is a fun game and it could kill also your time if you are busy.

In fact I already killed an average of 2hrs a day playing on my android phone reaching a score of 200k+ .
yeah, I should pass - I'm such a procrastinator as it is!
Come on, play just once and then you will get back to work... it will be only 5 minutes... trust me... (evil laugh)
just once you say? ;)
Yeah, no risk involved...
