What do you do with Excel?
[deleted]
I started with my company as 2nd tier customer tech support. I used excel to store passwords and log notes. 

When I became a lead I used it to track training status/progress, and for simple report cards. 

When I joined a specialty team I started to use it for data analysis and learned VBA to do some tricky and awesome reporting. 

Next specialty team I used it to write a complex program to import up to 1700 points of feedback a day and allow my teammates to sort and process each point of feedback and then run data analysis on it. We also used it for project tracking and simple workflow design. 

Now as a manager I use it for project tracking, storing data like a database, doing some charting, etc. 

Excel, depending on the task at hand, either makes my job easier, or is the largest part of my day to day work, but none of those jobs had excel skills as a requirement. I don't know anyone whose entire job is and always will be based on excel work. It's more like a skill you should have in order to function properly at whatever your job winds up being. 

Edit: one thing I've noticed is that excel can do incredible complex things. With VBA you can do damn near anything. But the more complex something gets the worse excel is at handling it. All the super complex stuff I needed to do started to break excel so I wound up learning HTML, JavaScript, php, json, MySQL, etc and wrote a couple little applications to do the work instead. None of it was pretty and probably would make a real programmer cringe hard enough to sprain a rib, but even so it all worked waaaaay better than excel. 
I use it to provide business analytics to my team through interactive summary reports for our market.  I mainly use pivot tables and powerpivot for my work.
Actuarial work. Excel (along with specialised software such as Sungard Prophet) is basically the backbone of our entire business. A lot of what I do involves creating spreadsheets that we use to help value our insurance portfolios.
Various things at different times... I used it for working with large volumes of  data when I was in linguistics,  producing graphs etc. 

Now mostly big reconciliation tasks and creating reporting dashboards.  I run an A/R and credit management team so lots of pivot tables,  lots of vlookup or index match match shit.  In my own time I'm trying to push my skills so I can work in more analytical roles down the track,  so I do things like making complex fitness tracking spreadsheets. 
I've had two internships through college where my job was done entirely in Excel. My first internship at a electric grid management company involved two major excel tasks. The first was forecasting how much power our clients used based on last year's data. So the main thing I did was use offset functions to structure the data so it was easier to average it. The second task was creating files where we could record and compute compliance with regulatory policy. So I had this color coded graphical computation set up in Excel for that, but there wasn't anything really sophisticated about it.

At my most recent job I was a consultant for a candy company. I had three "marquis" projects. The first used t-tests from the data analysis pack to assess the impact of iPads and blackberries on the effectiveness of a salesforce. The second was computing price and revenue elasticities from vending machines. The third was creating industry summaries. This time I found myself using the if/then logic with averageifs quite a bit as well as the name manager to make dynamic chart ranges. 

I'm starting my first real job next Monday as a pharmaceutical consultant. I think I'll be using Excel substantially less at this consultancy as they are not expressly in the business of data analytics.

I got my first internship by sending in some coursework from an introductory Excel course. I was very diligent about doing all the exercises in my textbook cover to cover but the best way to get good at Excel is work with it and commit to using the keyboard. Tapping alt brings up tooltips for the hotkeys for each ribbon. Hit that hotkey and then you have the hotkeys displayed for each command. So once you're in the habit of doing that and you find yourself repeating a command by mouse a lot you'll naturally want to find the hotkey. If you're doing it a lot you'll develop the muscle memory to do it and become very efficient. 

As for your question about moving on from Excel, I'd compare that to asking when a blacksmith gets to stop using his anvil. I think most analysts, even those far into their careers, use Excel in some capacity. There are ways to do a lot of theses tasks smarter in SAS or stata or something. But Excel is universal, quick, and relatively easy to develop fairly complex projects.

Now the trick with Excel is that because not a lot of people want to put the time in to get familiar with it, you can get close to projects you might not otherwise. And as the logic gets more arcane you become more and more integral to that project. So while 90% of what I did at these jobs was just shunting data around like a drone that critical 10% is what you put on your resume and use to get more responsibilities and better jobs.
I primary use it [for fun](http://www.reddit.com/r/excel/comments/25nswh/open_source_maze_generator_for_vba_programmers/) and [as paint replacement](https://mega.co.nz/#F!M8gHDJBJ!1pFQ98I2J1fbgl9JSzd1xg) when I am bored at work. Apart from that, IP tables and Device maps.
I used it production control and tracking for a credit card company. About 10 mil cards per year running through my sheets. And stat analysis and process resolution, and forecasting, and and and...

Where I went after? Physics teacher.
Analysis for data, but i did have a shitty job at a web marketing agency where i did alot of data analysis for web marketing campaigns, both organic and paid. cant say i learned too much about SEO but i learned alot of cool stuff in excel. it helps you get more money too!
Started off in an entry level accountung job and all I could do was make cells different colors and add one cell to another. Now I use vlookup and pivot tables and nest if functuons up to a couple dozen and write macros. Ive come to really know my shit.  I learned alot from always having the attitude of "ill bet excel can do that" and googleing it. Definitely helped with my career progression. 
I work in computer forensics. It is the most expedient tool for cleaning up tabulated data dumps generated by tools, systems and computers totally outside of your control for normalising, correlating, filtering and formatting in a countless number of ways to suit the whims and vagaries of a spectrum of fellow forensicators, investigators, lawyers and courts.

I trim(), concatenate(), substitute() and clean() to the left(), mid() and right() of everything in sight, then peer at that strip of paper pinned above my desk to INDEX-MATCH-MASH together various tables of flayed ascii before invoking some basic formatting macros to push out yet another bespoke report into a shiny printable PDF.

Occasionally I get to report upwards with a juicy pivot table, but not as often as I'd like.
financial modeling.

I think the most helpful functions I use the most are vlookup, hlookup, IF statements, and naming ranges.  Naming ranges makes such a big difference.  Wish I could VBA...
I pull excel files from a proprietary, web-based server my company has, which is also used by hundreds of other people to input data.  I use those reports to create myriad other reports for my clients.  I also feed them into access so that I can quickly create filtered data sets with the queries I want.  I essentially use access as a bridge between two different excel files.

I used to record, edit, and write macros for editing my reports, but I've gotten away from that for the most part.  I still use macros for little things formatting things that don't have keyboard shortcuts built into excel.

Oh, we also have recently started using Tableau, which is going to reduce my reliance on excel for reporting, but I will continue to use it for data manipulation, analysis, and ad hoc reporting.

I majored in philosophy as an undergrad, but I had some very minor CS background from high school.  I was bored doing operations stuff where I worked and was already putting my colleagues to shame by automating many of the tasks around the office.  So, they let me take this more centralized analyst role.

At this point I'm torn on whether I want to become more involved in trend analysis and statistics, or to go the SQL developer route.  The former is flashier and more highbrow, but you have to deal with annoying people more often and do presentations constantly.  Developing seems fun and like you are actually building something, but I feel like it is less central to business and harder to climb the corporate ladder.  That said, either would be a path to get me into a more interesting position.
I started out doing membership forecasting for a healthcare company.  I had no excel experience but I have always taken to computers pretty easily and pick up most software just playing around.  I was an econ major, so I just transferred my models I had learned in college into excel and picked stuff up along the way.   As I needed to learn new techniques I just googled or read books, taught myself pivot tables and formulas, then forms/macros/vba.  

People around work have noticed my skill level and asked me to build much more complex models, we have about 9 million members across the US, and I built some of the key membership and financial impact models for the ACA back in 2010, 2011 right after it was first passed.

Lately I've moved more into strategy because I get a little higher level of responsibility and better pay, but it also means my roles have moved more into project management and interpretation of other people's modeling results so I use excel less which is kind of a bummer.
i am a tax accountant.  I use excel quite extensively.  I use it for general ledger/accounting write up work, including downloading data from banks for ease of data entry.    I do not have an accounting program, except for the worksheet models i've created and modified for each client.  I have in the past used it for payroll using lookup tables for the tax calculations.    My macro ability is fairly basic, but acceptable.  All of my tax clients notes and schedules are on excel.  I use Excel for everything actually.
Currently in financial planning and analysis for one the top defense contractors. Started off as a biller which required pulling cost data out of SAP into excel, apply rates and mark ups and verify SAP was pricing correctly.  Very repetitive and mind numbing work so I learned about macros/VBA and automated the entire process. I continue to build on my Excel/VBA skill set and am able to use it to leverage my way into new roles.  Most recently I was given a position that is 1/4 actual FP&A work and 3/4 special projects / process automation.  
I use excel to design recording studios and Mixing consoles.  Possibly my most used tools for data management and design.  I use it to predict / calculate costs... invoice... etc etc

this console was designed in Excel:  http://wbsps.ca/forum/index.php?action=dlattach;topic=749.0;attach=1372;image

most certainly use it every day in the labs, on the drawing board, and just to keep track of ides. 

I'm on track to become and Electronics Engineer


I am a municipal management consultant.  The primary work-load is to create dynamic financial forecasting models (in Excel) that simulate the financial dynamics of a municipal government, or a specific fund of the government (General Fund, water/sewer enterprise fund, etc.).  The models are very large and often complex, acting sort of like a piece of software that is customized for each client.   The base of the models is financial data from the municipality, and depending on the type of fund a lot of data is extracted from property databases or utility billing databases.  

We use these models as a decision support tool for municipalities to solve financial management issues.  The models help find a balance between revenues and expenses to create a sustainable system that funds the necessary operations, maintenance, capital, reserves and debt service requirements of the system.  Utility rates are set using them, and the general fund models are used to help support decisions on millage, non-ad valorem assessments, and all sorts of things on the expense side.  Once the models are developed, we take them in front of management and eventually the elected boards to help them make their decisions. 

The careers starts as a financial analyst, where your main job is to work with the data and get the models loaded and working correctly.  From there you move up to become and consultant, where you still do modelling but you also travel a lot to be in front of the client.  After that, you become a project manager....still doing modelling and consulting as well as managing the analysts under you and the project as a whole.  

After management, the next steps are just in name only (vice-president seems to be the next gig), but the responsibilities are still the same.  The only thing you would do more is actually acquiring the work, and doing special things like attend conferences, expert witness testimony, etc.

You are always an excel monkey, but the higher you go the more work you can allocate to the analysts.

It is a very niche career, but if you have very good excel skills as well as the ability to speak and present confidently with excellent interpersonal skills...the sky is the limit to your earning potential.  
I would just like to say.... SLICERS ARE THE KING OF EVERYTHING!!!

I've been using them for some white box testing (not my job, but needs to happen quickly so...), and it's seriously helping me go through hundreds of scenarios quickly.
I work at a help desk that primarily does How To support for Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, Word, etc.  My job is to answer questions people have and figure out the weird things these programs do.  I took a pretty basic Excel class in college, but that was back in 2007 and I started here in 2012.  I know more about Excel and the other Office programs than I ever thought I would.  I really don't want to do this forever, my degree is in History, but I am glad I have learned what I have learned.  Computers were just something I did in my spare time, with gaming being the primary reason I got into computers.  I want to find a job in a museum, preferably doing archival work, but that is a really tough sector to get into (even when the job market isn't terrible like it is now).

Google is the single greatest tool you can use if you want  to learn something. Seven times out of ten, you can find what you want to do by searching for it, the other three you just have to dig a little deeper and refine your search to find what you are looking for.  
My step father got a longboard for his 70th birthday...  
  
[LINK](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2LIDJ7clMb8)  
  
Application to learning is what you need, not youth!
gg

How much do you make doing this?
Sounds a lot like my rise in my company.
I detect some Pittsburghese in your syntax
> I don't know anyone whose entire job is and always will be based on excel work.

I'll second this.  I will say though that having a firm grasp on Excel / Access and VBA makes a tremendous difference in what tools you have available for problem solving vs the average person.  Its like going to work and being told to build a house and you're the only one with power tools.
Seconded on actuarial work.   I use it to track competitor's rating structure as a way to generate premiums for certain risks.

I learned VBA to be able to synthesize the boatload of data that we have.  We are a huge company but I have the opportunity to improve processes in our little unit...I could spend all my time improving processes and there'd still be a lot more improvements to be made.
if im a VBA pivot table master, can i work in an actuary department of an insurance company? or do i need to be a mathlete
Do you know of index(match?
VBA is really dead easy to learn if you already use Excel frequently. Get yourself a copy of VBA for Dummies (or similar) and get going!
I do the same, but I work for the city. We do a lot of data stuff (accounting data, utility usage, taxes, commodity prices, whatever wall street is doing to our interest rates) in IBM and Oracle products and R (to do some forecasting, though if it's too complicated we get a econometrics consultant to put something together that we just maintain). Those products' outputs all get put into Excel to reconcile projected revenues and expenses. Usually people come in with a Bachelors in Econ or Finance and a little bit of work experience for a starting level position (~$65k/year) or an MPA/MBA and a few years of work experience for senior level position (~$85k/year). Past this though, knowing more Excel won't help since jobs higher up are mostly management and politics (dealing with city council, citizens, rate payers...).
Not Parent, but I make about 73k/year doing similar with similar background.
Ha what makes you say that? Jw
> I don't know anyone whose entire job is and always will be based on excel work

Any financial analyst, finance manager or CFO will live and die using Excel. Granted, the heavy data storage is done by SQL Server (Great Plains), Oracle, SAP but for reporting, data analysis, financial modeling: Excel is king.
Good analogy. 

It's one of those things too where a good and knowledgable manager will appreciate and make good use of any excel skills you have. But most people think excel is just storing passwords or addresses or whatever and don't have any clue how useful it can be. So putting it on a resume can look, to some people, the same as saying, "I can type", or "I know how to read."

You never know which you'll get until you're there. 
It depends whether you want to become a qualified actuary. Doing so requires strong math skills (I have a mathematics degree, as do almost all of my colleagues), as the qualification exams are pretty math-heavy.

The actual work may or may not involve much math, depending on the area you work in. For example, my old job essentially entailed creating spreadsheets to undertake projections of pension products. This didn't involve any "difficult" math at all, and could have been done by anyone with decent Excel skills (VBA being most important). In this role I worked with many people who did similar work who did not have a mathematical background (although they weren't technically part of the actuarial department).

On the other hand there are the guys who work on our internal models. They use a large amount of statistical math in their day to day work.
yes, but I haven't been in a scenario where I felt (index(match was the superior option (which perhaps it is...)


> If something needed done

Pittsburghers drop "be" when using "need." For instance, "the dishes need cleaned." There's a certain economy to it and after a few years living there I find myself doing it as well.

cool, thanks
Fair enough. W.r.t. Vba, have you ever done programming before?
I'm from the north west... how else would one say that the dishes need cleaning?
no programming.  I've done a few very very basic macro creations using the record and play function, but nothing wrt to writing individual lines manually. 


The dishes need to be cleaned
I'd recommend using the recorder so that you can start understanding how VBA works on a basic level, i.e. what code is required when you move around,when you add a formula, etc. and go from there. 
ugh... that sentence is exhausting... so many more words...
 :)
