Interactive Spreadsheets for Decision Makers Webinar (or: how I learned to do awesome things without any VBA!)
=A1*((A1>=20)+(A1>=50)+(A1>=100)+1)

You missed the "=" in ">=" in your first part of the video! :)
The boolean logic and use of the scroll bars were both new and useful concepts for me. I'm looking forward to checking out more of your tutorials!
Just finished watching it and I must say I'm impressed.  I considered myself a pretty proficient Excel user, but I learned a lot in that short amount of time.  I will definitely be using those techniques in the future!
Damn Jordan, you make me feel like I'm using VBA as a crutch! Your solutions are pretty elegant. Thanks for the video!
My current focus is on improving my interactive dashboards so I'll definitely give this a look, cheers!
[deleted]
Didn't watch the video but had a look at the files and it looks like you have a pretty solid presentation set up, touches on the things you need to set up neat dynamic presentations and visualizations and builds it up step-by-step in a really nice way. 

I tried messing around with doing increments that de-increment as you increment another one (so you have a pool of 100 increments, rather than 5 bars that are relatively weighed with eachother), but can't seem to come up with something that isn't weird and circular (without VBA). Any clever ways to do this?
Ooo thanks! Have some gold for finding that.

If you notice anymore let me know..
Ha, thanks Cary. I mean, I'm all about balance between VBA and formulas. The proper balance is more art than science, but I think many people forget you can do a lot with formulas. (One clear advantage to code is the ability to comment.)
The best projects are your own. If you find you keep repeating the same tasks over and over again in Excel, you should try recording the action in a new macro and then looking through the code to see what you can understand.

You might also consider these VBA manuals a reader of my blog has asked me to distribute: http://www.microsofttraining.net/vba-training-manuals.php  (I'm not an affiliate - I receive requests from time to time to help promote the work of others - and I do, if I think it's useful.) 
I don't have a good answer for you. The only way around it is using VBA and applying a One Way Sensitivity Analysis algorithm in the code. That part isn't all that hard as I've done it before. (PM me if you want the code.) But, as far as I can tell, there isn't a way to do it without VBA -- or without dealing with circular references. 
