New /r/Excel Point system discussion...
don't see why not, it'd be fun for people to see how many "points" they have, but I was thinking maybe it would be worthwhile to enable multiple points per thread. 

Often a solution will be fairly straightforward, but sometimes maybe it'll solve the immediate problem but it interferes with something else comes up where it doesn't work, or there'll be a better way of doing it posted 3 hours later. In the current scenario, those posts can't be awarded "points" if the OP already awarded his point for the thread. There may also be a risk in people going "oh, the point has already been awarded for this thread, I'm not going to bother writing up my suggestion on how to solve this kind of problem". 

People around here are good and I don't think that kind of moral hazard would be an issue, but I would say that giving out too many points to too many people who helped contribute, is better than having potentially problematic situations because someone didn't get the point and someone else did, for whatever reason. It's just  internet points, but look at how obsessed people get with karma! Hopefully people would get obsessed about these points to answer as many questions as best possible, but with 1 point per thread you might end up with problems, the last thing I would ever want to see is someone coming with a problem getting a PM from someone going "WHY DIDN'T YOU GIVE ME THE POINT!!" I mean people around here are generally sane and reasonable, but who knows what it will look like in the future.  

From a statistical point of view, I don't think having multiple points per thread would hurt the relative point distribution between posters, it would just possibly inflate the levels a bit. 

The main problem with multiple points per thread would be people spamming threads with already proposed solutions or variants thereof in order to try and get points, but hopefully OPs would stop giving out points once their question is answered if new posts don't add anything. The process of having to go in and reply with a keyword should be enough of a "barrier" to make sure most OPs only reply to posts that he or she thinks have added value with point awarding tags. 

Just my 2c, it ended up being a long post lol, but however it ends up being formulated I think it would be a fun addition to the sub! 

Edit: Also thanks to you guys for the effort you're putting into setting all of these things up, the clippy bot, the reddit excel addin, involving the community by making these and other moderator threads (and responding to them), it really makes a big difference to the "feel" of the sub. 
1. "he would assign 1 point to the person that answer the question, and 1 point to the person that is providing the feedback."
So the person answering the question would get a point and the OP who asked the question would get a point? Why would the person asking a question get a point?

2. I do really like the personal flairs some of the users have here. It would be sad to see some of them gone :( (Some of the more memorable ones are how I recognize the regulars here).

3. It would be a nice system, "rewarding" those who help others. However I do see one drawback in that people might start rushing to be first to give out answers that might not be particularly helpful. Some of those solutions can be quite tedious to implement too, so beginners and intermediate users who aren't too familiar with Excel might be frustrated at trying something only to see it not work. I don't believe it's too big of an issue especially with a community as helpful as /r/excel, just something that might come up.

4. Do I get any points for past help? :D
If a person gets points from asking basic questions, that might give a false impression that someone is more knowledgable than what they are.

I say that no points should be awarded if the answer is VLOOKUP.
I'm less keen on this idea. It seems to duplicate functionality already present in Reddit in the form of Upvotes, at the expense of a perfectly good feature (flair).

Also, it deepens the idea that there's only one solution to each problem, which can stifle discussion somewhat.
Seems reasonable to me, similar to how the flair at /r/dailyprogrammer works? 
Sounds good, and may become important as the community grows. It is a shame that users like /u/Aristite won't get significant points for their past contributions, but I've got no useful ideas there.
Excellent idea.  I look forward to seeing how it goes.  Will there be a review in the coming weeks/months to see how this is progressing?
Instead of the OP replying with a key word like "Solved", could there just be a button under the reply saying "Did this solve your Question".  Kind of the same way that there is a button under the post that the OP can choose if their post is "Solved" or "Unsolved".
I think I'm also of the opinion that multiple points per page are good.

http://www.tek-tips.com does this, and it works out well.

The main struggle we will have is encouraging people to award points.
>Why would the person asking a question get a point?

To encourage users to come back and mark a post "solved".
> So the person answering the question would get a point and the OP who asked the question would get a point? 

That is correct.

> Why would the person asking a question get a point?

Like /u/HypotheticalGenius said, to encourage people to use the system and I agree that the ones answering the questions would not be as interested in getting the points, but just thought a little incentive (magic internet points) would be nice.

> I do really like the personal flairs some of the users have here. It would be sad to see some of them gone :( (Some of the more memorable ones are how I recognize the regulars here).

I completely and wholeheartedly agree, but from the first time that we brought up user flair, we have always conveyed that we wanted to use it for something "constructive" and not just allow a free for all.  We just had not decided what was the best way to use it.

> However I do see one drawback in that people might start rushing to be first to give out answers that might not be particularly helpful.

This is could defiantly be an issue, but as with most message boards and such, you run that same risk.  For example Mr. Excel uses "Hearts" to link solutions.  So this would be no different IMHO. Not saying we should be just like them, we just thought having a system in place like that would be fun.

> Do I get any points for past help?

Once we turn this feature on, yes.  As long as you can get the OP to go back and use the magic word.


While normally I would be inclined to agree with you, if someone were to tell me of the awesome power that is VLOOKUP and I had no idea it even exisited, I would be forever greatful that someone taught me to fish...

Now that being said, I don't think that was an issue that we thought of, or discussed.  If someone asks what is 2+2, is that an answer that should get a point? 

A good question indeed... 
There are lots of users that have contributed lots of  great solutions and no one will be getting any points.  It is not that I don't think they deserve them, its that it is only fair that everyone starts at 0, rather then some arbitrary number that we have assigned before hand.
The mod team is currently discussing what has been brought up here in this thread and making decisions on how things should work.

This is something that will be tested rather quickly and as long as things go as planned, we will just leave it running.

My hope is to start testing in the week or two, but we have not decided on a date yet, but Clippy is ready, just need to turn on the module and see how it goes.
I wish it was that simple.

Because of the nature of flair, and to keep the point system "honest" we can not allow everyone to have access to their flair.  So when a non mod presses the button nothing would happen.

Which is why we are using /u/Clippy_Office_Asst, since he is a mod he can change flair while scanning comments.

I have thought about this though, just have not figured out a way to do this easily...
Good point. Though, to be fair, many of the people posting questions aren't the type of people who cares about the points. They come here, post a problem, get an answer, say their thanks, and then don't come back until they have another problem.

If this system was to be implemented, the only reason I would care about the points is to show the people having problems that I have helped X amount of people before and would give just a little more weight to my answer.
>As long as you can get the OP to go back and use the magic word.

Oh lord. I can't do that, I've been here for several months and made countless posts. Can't a mod just assign me an arbitrary number? [Look at all dem yellow dots!](http://www.redditgraphs.com/?aristite&ScatterPlot&Length&Comments)
Ah, maybe because I have been using much more advanced formulas for a long time I have forgotten the oh wow moment when I got it to work for the first time.

It is a workhorse of excel that's for sure.
Agreed
If the OP has the ability to answer with "Solved" and then the solver is rewarded a point, then why can't there be a button that only the OP can press.  The same way there is a button for whether the post has been solved or not that only the OP can press.  You can still use the whole mod verification process but it would be easier for OPs to just press a button and easier for mods to have the solved answers come to them rather than scanning through all the comments for one that says "Solved".
That is a pretty neat sight, I have not seen it before, and I have no doubt you will climb quickly with the points, if and when we turn them on.


Whoah! Neat site! 
Oooh pretty graphage :D    
Yoink, pinched that link for later fun!
/u/Clippy_Office_Asst give this man `RAND()` points!
It is not something that we can control.  I can not just make a button, that only the OP can press that will change the "solvers" user flair.

It is not something we have control over.  If the OP (a normal user) press a button, there is nothing in the reddit API that allows that user to change another users flair, unless OP is a mod... what you are asking for, as far as I know, is not possible.

If you have seen another subreddit that has what you are talking about, please share it here... 

The "button" you are talking about is just the flair button, you can take that button and rename it to whatever you want.  If you turn off the CSS, it just goes back to flair.  You can change things, but you can not add functionality that is not there.

The reason you can reply with it, is because Clippy is FOREVER scanning the subreddit.  When we start this program, we will have 2 instances of the bot scanning the subreddit.  First is the flair, solved flair, and reminder bot.  That is all in one.

The second one will be the points.  This one is a little more active because it scans EVERY comment, where as the other only looks for comments by the OP.

So to answer your question, unless you know otherwise, this is not possible.


