How many of you are certified Excel Experts? Has this helped you land jobs? How difficult was the exam?
[Got my expert certification a year ago.](http://i.imgur.com/Wegrg3F.png)

If you know Excel really well, the certification exam will be easy. I [throw a logo](http://excelsense.com/images/momaster.png) on my resume and any applications. It looks nice and official but I personally don't think it adds a whole lot of value to my application. That's probably a result of me knowing Excel well and undervaluing my performance. The hiring manager at my current job was impressed by it, so that had to count for something.

It's relatively inexpensive compared to more training or courses, so the benefit is high for the cost. [Here's more info if you're looking for it.](https://www.microsoft.com/learning/en-us/mos-expert-certification.aspx)
The only certification I have is a A+ certification from comptia. Which was moderately easy to get.

Certified excel expert might be good for a lower-midrange level job. But if you want actual programming jobs then you need something a bit more hefty (VBA something preferably, especially if you're trying to be an excel expert).
[deleted]
No certification here, but I am one of the few Excel heavy hitters in a company with 3000 employees.  I think it would be a good idea if I were job hunting to have some kind of certification, but given that my job is satisfactory and not likely to go away, I probably won't change things.
How much would these things cost and can you get them online?
Can you do the exams online, and what's the price, roughly?
I didn't even know there was such a thing.  I might have to pick that up just because it'd be easy.
This is pretty much exactly the answer I was looking for.  Much appreciated!  I will need to brush up on my VBA as I don't use that too much at work but I'd really like to have this on my resume, as getting analyst jobs these days gets harder and harder.
Thanks.
Its not.

I work for a massive multinational company. We dont use keywords. Neither does most other companies.
so humble
Glad I could help! If I recall correctly VBA wasn't a *huge* part of the exam. If you have a basic understanding of VBA and are great everywhere else you should pass with flying colors. I did my exam in Excel 2010. [Here's a page](http://www.onlc.com/excel-certification-mos.htm#certifications) that will direct you to Microsoft's list of required skills for each available year of exams (2007, 2010, 2013).

If I can help with anything else, please let me know -- and good luck!
[deleted]
If there's one thing in life that I'm good at, it's Excel.
Read them.
the HR prints 100 resumes and then throws them on a desk. Those that fell on the floor... are unlucky. They proceed doing this untill they have 3-5 CVs, they dont really read them (if they could read - they wouldnt be HR...) those 3-5 lucky CVs go to a manager
I mean, how else would you know if they tape buttholes?
Do you think people in HR are born that way, or does the job turn you into a massive cunt?

I mean I've met a few exceptions so I'm not really sure. 
I'm not in HR, but I do assist in recruiting for internships and full time positions. My HR people are great.

They read every resume they get. That being said, they may not get every resume. Say you meet someone in person and they don't think you're a good fit, they make a note of it. If you submit online, it gets read unless you're negatively in the system for some reason
The general rule of life is:
if you are a bad worker, you are promoted to a trainer. If you cant teach anyone anything, you are promoted to management. And if you suck at delegating tasks and fail at life, you go to HR.
