Looking to automate my job. Tips/Can I hire you?
I do Excel consulting. PM me if you would like to discuss a contract. Usually I can develop a proof of concept for free.  
How simple are the steps that you go through to do it manually? Is it mostly copying and pasting and moving things around?
this is very doable. If you are interested in talking, please PM me.
What system are you running?  Odds are you can get it in csv.  
If you are on Excel 2010 or greater you could very easily automate using Power Pivot and PowerQuery.  Changed how I do everything and changed how my company did everything. Check out powerpivotpro.com and Chris Webb's BI Blogs for help in learning each add in.  You will so thank yourself for taking the time. 

Edit spelling. 
How did you get into Excel consulting?
What kind of rates do you charge?
2 monitors at work, one showing each spreadsheet. Just manually type in the daily service total, the location they worked at (E or P) retail sold, and number of each service they performed.  No copying/pasting.  Rest of the info I need is automatically calculated. 

It takes me about 45 minutes a day to process one days worth of services.
I've been using 2007 for some time, never tried 2010.  I'm somewhat familiar with PivotTables.  Is this a lot different?
Got good at excel and posts on reddit saying he does excel consulting?
After a crazy amount of time doing Excel in the office I realized that I was good enough to do it for people other than my employer. I still have an office job and only do Excel on the side, but it's fun to see projects from other people. 

Sometimes I will advertise on Craigslist and Reddit, but mostly I get business by word of mouth.
It just depends on the job. I sell my stock tracking app for a flat $30. For custom work I usually charge $30 - $50 per hour (my work per hour is very different than what other people generate) or a flat rate just depending on your needs and the nature of the project. If I can reuse the product then I can charge less. If it is very custom and an area that I'm not strong in, then I'll have to charge more. 

What do you need/want done?
It's basically 2 formulas. Make another sheet with dates on the left and categories across the top. You need to ad column 1 in your sheet to do the location properly.

http://i.imgur.com/chHFkiP.png

Oh man this looks like fun. I think you need to make a helper excel sheet to turn your raw data into something more user friendly and from that you can make your chart.
PowerPivot is putting Excel on steroids.  You may have success just using regular pivot tables which are available in 2007.  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PowerPivot
I do excel xonsulting pm me
One of my claims to fame is that I have spent more time working in Microsoft Excel than I have spent behind the wheel of a car driving...  By a factor of 3.
Wow that was so informative. 
So do you work exclusively in the evenings then?
I don't need anything done: I was just curious about what the going rate is for Excel work.  I didn't realize there was a market for that.
Everyone who works with excel on a daily basis can say that, I sit in front of a computer for 8-12 hours a day at work and my commute is around 30 minutes each way. I spend more time in excel than driving by a factor of 8.... 
That's what I'm saying anyone can tell you they are a consultant. You've got to see some of their work to see how good they are at excel.
Not entirely. My day schedule is somewhat flexible. Are you looking for some consulting during business hours?  
No, I am just curious how can you balance consulting with a full-time job. 
The bottom line is that I have to get my work done. If I am efficient then it doesn't matter if it takes less than 8 hours. Alternatively, if I have to work late or on the weekends than I do that. So, if a client needs me during business hours then I just arrange my normal job so that nothing critical falls during that time and I make sure that I still accomplish my tasks. 
