Best way to learn Excel
-Apply for a position where being an expert in Excel is a requisite.

-Lie in the interview saying that you are an expert.

-Get the job.

-When your boss ask you to do something simply say: Yes it will be ready Tomorrow.

-Spent the night searching the web learning how to do what they ask you to do.

-If you ask in a forum like this one and they tell you that what you are asking is impossible to get done with Excel, don't believe it and keep trying.

-Deliever the following day.

-Success!

This is what I did.
Pick a project that you're interested in analyzing. A popular one might be a personal finance tool with expense tracking, investment updating, budgeting, etc. Over time, you will ask "oh, that'd be a cool feature, how do I do that?" At that point, you have specific questions that you can research online and learn on the go.

For a more concentrated study session, I can't give higher recommendations to the "Excelisfun" channel on YouTube. Great instructional videos on literally any Excel topic. I started with "slaying excel dragons" and that worked well for me.
A great starting resource is here: http://chandoo.org/

You can also check out Udemy here: https://www.udemy.com/courses/search/?q=excel

Finally, Microsoft provides some training: http://office.microsoft.com/en-us/excel-help/training-courses-for-excel-2013-HA104032083.aspx
Something that is somewhat obvious, but hasn't been said yet, is hang out in this subreddit! There are tons of people here who might as well be Excel developers (I'm looking at you, /u/Fishrage_ and /u/epicmindwarp) and there are questions of all kinds being asked every day. And, if you ever get stuck, just post a new thread and you'll definitely get a response!
excelexposure.com is something I'm starting on. I've got a decent background but want to add experience and get better. Haven't started but there seems to be a decent amount of good videos.

Once you find a project to work on, I'd recommend learning keyboard shortcuts. Unplug the mouse and post a print out of the shortcuts on a wall/desk you can easily refer to.

As for projects, some suggestions:

* Create a monthly/weekly budget for yourself.
* If you follow a sport, try to find historical data online and start doing basic statistics on it.
* Look online for sample excel files and try to replicate them.

Good luck!
as others have said you'll need a reason to work with it on a daily basis. once you've got that the key (the literal button on the keyboard) is Alt.

This opens up tooltips for every button in Excel. Whenever you find yourself doing something over and over, clicking through menus etc start navigating to the relevant buttons using Alt. After a few times you'll develop the muscle memory for the hotkey.

The second key is ctrl. Ctrl+arrow key will navigate you to the end of a contiguous selection. ctrl+shift+arrow will select a group of contiguous cells
Oh god, I got away easy. I was being hired for an entry level data analyst job, and I got asked "Are you good with Excel?"

My answer: "I can be, sir."

Somehow I still got the job. 
This is my exact same story as well. Not nearly an expert, but have learned a lot from having a position where I'm forced to get results with Excel. This subreddit has helped a ton. 

Mr. Excel isn't bad either. 
im in this exact position now.....
> Lie in the interview saying that you are an expert.

They didn't ask any Excel questions in this interview?  
>get motivation
Thank you!
Thank you!
i agree.  this sub is a great resource.
Thank you. This looks like a great resource 
Oh God, don't listen to what I say!
When I started there was no Reddit or Mr. Excel. I learn everything I know in a newsgroup called: microsoft.public.es.excel. Oh I'm so old. Anyone remember the Usenet?
The guy who interview me had no clue about excel. Now I'm the expert in the company in excel and everytime we hired someone I always ask something because, you know... people sometimes lie more than they speaks ¬_¬ You can't trust them.
If you're into video games / eSports, I recommend tracking pro player stats!
And if you are looking for a project, hang out in /r/excel for a while and try to help people with their problems.  Google will be your friend, and the excel help.  For 2007 and 2010 switching from online to offline help makes that a bit easier but I don't know about 2013, as I only use it on my home pc, so I have limited exposure to the help in it, and my personal excel needs are not as extensive lol.
...says the user with 14 clippy points
I admire your honesty.
Well that was a few years ago and I actually become an expert in Excel doing it like this. I told my manager the truth years later and we both laugh because I finally manage to do the job and he was happy with the impossible things that I did for him :-)
