What are some fun things that you track using excel?
I USED to track what time my wife got up every morning. We both work from home, and she was trying to convince me she didn't sleep in that late.

I ran all kinds of analytics on it and it was fascinating. On average she woke up like 30 minutes earlier on Wednesdays than any other day of the week. I was never able to figure out why.

Then one day she walked in while I was recording and for some reason it froze while closing and that was the end of that...
At my internship I created a VBA timer which would just count the seconds as they passed, then I used some formulas and created a chart which tracked the money I was making every second and added it up so I could check how much I made at any given point. Then I created another section which calculated how much a salaried employee would make at the same time it was counting mine and I could see the difference in real time. Finally I made a section where I could see how much I had made in terms of Arizona Iced Teas($1), a 2 Liter of Mountain Dew, ($2.30), and a Little Caesar's Hot n Ready Pizza ($5.30), mostly because I was hungry
[This girl kept spreadsheets of all the sex she has had with different people, her weight, mood, hair length, etc!](https://ud.reddit.com/r/relationships/comments/2ghc2z/update_my_25m_girlfriend_26f_of_15_years_keeps/)
During college I had a spreadsheet that would tell me where to order pizza. It was pretty simple, I would calculate how much a square inch of pizza cost then record what the deal was and where I got it.

Helped me catch a couple deals where 3 medium pizzas in a bundle was cheaper than a single XL pizza coupon at another restaraunt!
Not necessarily track, but I've used it for the random function at times.

We have a French guy in the office and he guilted me into joining his World Cup pool that was running. Knowing zero about soccer (football?) I wrote some functions to randomly pick my teams and ended up getting 6th out of 22 people, which I didn't think was too bad!
I made my boss an excel sheet to log in hours worked for all employees.

I made myself a little guestimation sheet for my paychecks, to know how much money I'm losing by coming in late all the time, and it's synced with the log sheet my boss has on her computer so when she imputs the hours, my sheet will say how many I'm being paid for each day.  

I made a giant '365 Reasons to Drink' chart to create a master list of holidays for every day of the year. I used to bartend and every time I had a shift I'd do a little self-promotional party for some sort of historical fact or holiday (Heliocentric Heretic Day! The day Galileo was put under house arrest for believing the earth revolved around the sun! Served Tequilla Sunrise etc). 

In the background on my computer at work I have Cookie Clicker going and I created an excel page to keep track of what item would be the most economical to buy (ie: buying a new Factory would produce more clicks per second per cost than buying a new grandmother, while buying that new upgrade would give me this rate of clicks per cost). It's not perfect, because excel seems to want to dumb out on formulas randomly (vlookup mostly). 

I've also created a bunch for work. I keep a log of all new and potential clients that call in, and created a form letter to mail any potential clients we turn down. It also has a report on new clients for which staff and also all calls and how they were referred to us (of course only the 'no' regularly have their referral source logged because NO OTHER STAFF LOG REFERALL SOURCE ON YESES gdi I made the new client forms and referrals is one of the very top spots to fill out). 

I also made an excel sheet to log all the old files I've scanned and shredded and a link to the folder the pdfs are located. 
Not me, but /u/UndeadCaesar tracks his office foosball games on a spreadsheet and runs analysis on it. [Here's the first thread](https://www.reddit.com/r/excel/comments/2fxmhn/why_is_my_pivot_table_doing_this/) and [here's the second thread.](https://www.reddit.com/r/excel/comments/2gll94/counting_number_of_matches/)

Also, /u/UndeadCaesar, if you're out there and you're needing a full time foosball data analyst for Excel, hit me up. Please. 
I have an excel workbook that I use to simulate betting on baseball games (I don't actually gamble). I've built a model to estimate the odds of a team winning the game and compare that to the betting line. After I've made all of my picks for the day I log it on a separate sheet. Each day I query the league standings and use the change from the previous day to determine if I won the pick or not. I got busy in August and had to stop, but to that point during 2014 I had made over 1,000 picks.
I have my exercise log in excel. I track running mostly, but also biking, swimming, lifting, soccer, rest days, and even missed workouts. I track my routes, mileage, pace, surface run on, heart rate, elevation ascent and descent, calories burned, what shoes I ran in, and notes about the activity. I have it set to aggregate by week, month and year, by type of activity. I can look at my year over year results by date, weekday (the 30th Sunday this year and last year, for example), week and month. I build my training plan in a separate tab, so when I enter my activity for the day it checks against what I had planned for the day and aggregates by week to show me my actual weekly mileage vs planned weekly mileage. 

One thing I've thought about adding is weather (temp, humidity, general conditions) to correlate against pace. My pace slows as it gets hotter and increases as it gets cooler. I haven't done this yet because finding that data everyday would be a little bit of a pain.
I started tracking my reading habits this year. It's nothing too complex but I find it interesting.  I keep track of total pages read, average page per book, Male vs Female authors, and Hardcover vs eBooks among other things.  I find it helps me step outside my normal reading comfort zone.  As time goes on and I finish more books I'll probably try to add other things to keep track of
Having read about mathematicians winning lotto, I track numbers - frequencies and time since last drawn, using various formulas to pick numbers.  It's hard to measure if its increased my odds, but I definitely win more often than my partner who spends the same amount on auto picks.  He wins none where I win maybe $15-25 (the lowest division) more often than not.
I keep tabs on my genetic data, blood test results (things like LDL, HDL) which are evaluated every 6 months.  I guess it's similar to what a lot of people have here in their personal life (weight, etc.).  I'm very interested in the intrinsic sources of health, not weight as much, but blood pressure, glucose, etc.
I track my trading card collection in excel ( and soon to be Access), and make pivots and charts to see how I'm doing against the total 8,000 or so cards. Also is essential for when I purchase cards to know what I have and don't have. Pokemon, for reference.
Not necessarily fun but I find it very useful - I have a doc for tracking my weight, exercise, calorie intake and finances (which has a couple of sheets feeding into it). 

It shows me a graph of my weight loss progress and also calculates the rewards I have earned based on the amount of exercise I've done and calories I've eaten. It then factors in the rewards into the finance part of the sheet.
I used to keep a spreadsheet in college on my Madden Football wins vs. my roommates.  We tracked user picks on defense, user catches on offense...it was ridiculous. 
Just running times so far. Maybe I will do more soon.
well, she would have never believed you anyways, even with empirical data. i'm assuming you did this because your wife complained about always waking up late.
wow that must have been a tough experience for that guy
You know, there's a pun in there about "XL pizza" and Excel!
clever!
Thats pretty cool!
I did this for March madness! 
>  Cookie Clicker

That game.....
Those are REALLY awesome! I may have to steal that holiday idea from you :)
Replace your vlookups with an index match combination

First result from google - http://www.randomwok.com/excel/how-to-use-index-match/
any screenshot? I've done some basic baseball historical analysis, but my formatting looks terrible and would like to make it better
You could temporarily just have hot, normal, cold 
And I've used excel to create grocery lists, sorted by isle number so my list is on the same order I shop.   Makes ticking items off it easier, plus sorting by recipe when I get home (storing ingredients for same meal together).  A little OCD my friends may say, but why not I say!
If it's a random draw lotto isn't that just the Gamblers Fallacy
Oh and christmas cards... Who from for next years list of who to!
As a fellow Pokémon collector, I wondered if you might want to share these sheets?
Mind pm-ing a template of that? That'd be so useful
Cellar Door...cellar door
:( I have way too much free time at work. It at least gives a sense of something happening. I set in an empty office for 8 hours, answering the 3 phone calls I get a night, scanning in old documents. I've reread all my favorite webcomic archives, attacked a few new ones, I occasionally watch videos on amazon or hulu but I usually stick to shows I've watched since I can't have it on screen the whole time. I taught myself to do formulas and macros in excel/word. I can't download/install anything. I'm working on learning programming but it's a slow start. 
I've got about half the dates filled in so far. There are some days when I can't find ANYTHING worth celebrating on Wikipedia for. 

I'm super proud of that one. I have the holidays split up into like 4 types (Standard, Historic, Pop-Culture, etc) and even have a page for Events (specific days that don't reoccur on a set schedule, like the Equinox, etc) and a page for Floating Holidays (holidays that occur the 3rd Tuesday of every November, etc, or Friday the 13th, etc).  

I then have the master calendar page, from Jan 1 to Dec 31, today's date highlighted (the days before today on the calendar are set to be next year). You can select from a drop down menu which holiday to celebrate on which day. 

http://i.imgur.com/qd9oYF0.png screenshot of the main page

Here's a screenshot. The blue square on the sides indicate which days have more than 1 holiday. 

The chart page is just a page I have with all the dates of the year linking to their Wikipedia page, with ones that have something filled in darkened, so when I get bored I can click a random date and try and find something for it. 
=IF(MONTH(DATE(YEAR(TODAY())+IF(DATE(YEAR(TODAY());C$1;$A2)<TODAY();1;0);C$1;$A2))=C$1;DATE(YEAR(TODAY())+IF(DATE(YEAR(TODAY());C$1;$A2)<TODAY();1;0);C$1;$A2);"") 
**I need this.**

I've spent most of my early adult-life wandering aimlessly in Publix looking for items on a list. 
You need the Our Groceries app. Let's you do all of this AND your list can be shared. My wife can literally add items while I'm on my way to the store or even at the store!  I don't use the "by aisle" function, but I'm fairly sure it exists. I love excel, but this app is so damn practical 
Well the gamblers fallacy is just as much of an assumption as my formulas... Hard to prove it's not a fallacy.  It's an interesting exercise though.... I guess the law of averages etc is hard to prove or disprove.  Perhaps that's a challenge for anyone keen.... Over a period of time, say, 10 weeks buy two tickets in a lotto each week, same value etc, one auto pick, one with excel formulas.... The outcome would be interesting, though not necessarily proof.
[Here is a link to the file I use](https://www.dropbox.com/s/oe4qtzn4q3lhlhv/Master%20Pokemon%20Card%20List%20140916.xlsx?dl=0). Let me know what you think. As I said, it is in a bit of a transition period to ensure easy importing/exporting from Access.
I definitely can :)

It's kind of in the transition of data structuring for Access (primary keys and whatnot), but I'll post a Dropbox link this evening.
Sure thing! I'm at work at the moment and busy this evening but will send it over later tonight or tomorrow :)
Wow. That doesn't sound like a great time, but at least you're being productive with it! 
My columns are headed:  category, isle, item, size, quantity, recipe.  I save and re-use for same recipe again at future times.  It makes shopping easier and meal planning a sinch.  
Will check it out.
This is ridiculous. In a good way. 

Did you download this information from an online database somewhere? It's gorgeous.
Mind sending it to me too? I've been trying to lose weight and that would be really nice.
I downloaded the base data from PokeBeach databases, but since around Legendary Treasures, I have been adding my own data and cleaning it up to make it as locse to perfect as possible.
It's gorgeous and totally ready for some great queries in Access. Well done!
