Worked on a completely locked down machine. Time passed quick
You might be overqualified for the position!
What were you supposed to be doing?
I've seen some crazy stuff in Excel. But this. This is on another level. [Bravo, OP.](http://i.imgur.com/bhKp2.gif)

I would absolutely love a peek under the hood of this glorious workbook. 

Looks like necessity really is the mother of invention.
[deleted]
People at work call me an Excel Wizard.  Only now do I realize how much of an Excel Muggle I actually am.
the paperclip helped you didn't it...
This is incredible. Would love to see under the hood.
Looks like Office 2013 doesn't like it :(

Edit: Nevermind, just had to add PtrSafe to the VB declare statement to support 64-bit systems.
Jesus.  /r/Excel is on the frontpage?  I'm not sure what is going on here but I like it. 
Can someone ELI5 what exactly this is doing? And how it is done? Seems like a cool concept, but I'm too dumb to understand what's going on....
Youre a don OP.
[deleted]
Tagged you as Archmage of the college of Microsoft Excellence
People like you make my job hard.
Awesome! Can't run it on my machine because I have a 64bits system unfortunately.  Probably only needs a few tweeks to get it working.
TIL that I thought I knew something about computers...it has appeared to me now that I don't know shit, about shit...ahhh life
For those of you guys running 64 bit Orifice, you need to enable the VBA editor and add a "PtrSafe" right before the Declare statement.  You should see it highlighted in red.  That fixed all my compile error problems.

You, AyrA_ch, are a god(dess?) amongest mankind.

Edit - Oops, missed this comment, already addressed it.  http://np.reddit.com/r/excel/comments/2jtd2f/worked_on_a_completely_locked_down_machine_time/clf5wdl
This is like that guy that made an excel file rpg.  the amount of time people spend on something so they can find something to do other than work truly is amazing.
Nothing makes me happier than seeing people successfully work around fascist snoops.
Ok, so I pasted the path into the playlist sheet, and then clicked play in the control sheet. Nothing happened. What am I doing wrong?
Are you wizard? 
Umm, if you hit Crl V you can paste stuff. 
[deleted]
had to download to have a look thanks OP :)
Very, very nice work
I keep getting Runtime error '13' mismatch when I try to play anything. Help?
I don't understand, but that's to be expected.  I was born more than 30 years ago.
wow
How?

I tried to fill the entire sheet with a complex multiple if statement and the thing promptly decided to go on strike!

For heaven's sake. My pc can throw millions of triangles of any size in any shape precisely where they need to be on the monitor, more than 60 times a second, while calculating if a line extending into the monitor will shatter any of these triangles.

Yet it can't copy paste formulas......
Not to get off subject, but what kind of company is be around very long if they fear new technology so much that they are still using IE7?
The machine was locked down, but somehow you were able to copy the MKV file to the Administrator's desktop?
Can't explain that.
You are a hero
Remote Desktop is another great way to do other stuff without being tracked. 
[deleted]
best!

I want a copy
I want a copy
Wow. Amazing.
OP to follow up on my previous comment i'm amazed by the code ..i was expecting LOADS of code but it's very short. very interesting :) thanks again for sharing
You probably didn't have to build controls into the spreadsheet.  Bypassing AppLocker, and alike, is usually quite easy if the admins allow word or excel.

[http://blog.didierstevens.com/2008/06/05/bpmtk-how-about-srp-whitelists/](http://blog.didierstevens.com/2008/06/05/bpmtk-how-about-srp-whitelists/)
Got a love that control they want over you.  Just makes us try harder to break it.
Upvoted for sharepoints
I once spent an entire evening in a college class trying to find a VBA script that would force Outlook to setup re-occuring emails / tasks.  The elation I felt at finally doing that is nothing in comparison of staring at this spreadsheet.  Good job, and I hope they payed you a lot.
Nice work!  I wish I'd have had this at my last job. 
My 'Player' module won't compile with the added PtrSafe in the specified place. It says 'Expected: Sub or Function'. Anybody have a clue or hint as to what it could be complaining about?

2007 might be too outdated...
Hey OP, thanks for sharing. I just wanted to say that I will be genuinely fearful for my life if ever we meet. :)
Any chance for a browser in excel so I don't have to suffer with ie8 anymore?
There is nothing I love more than finding ways around system restrictions.  I too have found Excel (for it's fine VBA powers) and the simple cmd prompt to be lifesavers.  A lot of restrictions I've come across are applicable with the GUI but the commands worked without a hitch.
http://media0.giphy.com/media/IL1sMUfQVRNFC/200_s.gif
This is just...beautiful
You're crazy! [I had to tag you in RES!](http://i.imgur.com/3iwDB1O.png)
:-)
There's special N and KN versions of Windows that don't come with Media Player due to a settlement with the EU
Reminds me of using visual basic to bypass running exes on high school computers.
[deleted]
That is the first time i am really considering to offer gold to someone.
Would you be able to surf the internet with only excel ? 
Would this count as a Excel process ?
Would you be affected by internet filters ?

Have you consider adding a boss button or shortcut?  It functions so that if it is pressed. the movie will pause (or even close) and switch to a different spreadsheet.  very handy if someone walks up on you.

You may also consider making  it so when you pause the control a differ spreadsheet appears to hide the display page.  

These ideas should be quite easy to implement with your skills.
Love that the timer is a pie-chart.
Does this script works on Office 2003?
Can we have the file ?
Can I see what you write in excel to play movies?
So OP, have you found a way to browse /r/excel via excel yet? I think you could make a lot of people very happy with that (starting with me!)
Wow man! You are the best. You will be famous in a few days :)
I would love to have this file........
You might say he "Excels" in his field!
You make a Powerful Point
I needed to modify an excel document so it calculates as much by itself as possible.

I had a 4 hour time window and was payed by the time it took to modify the excel. Since I was finished rather quickly I would got almost nothing, so I decided to develop this, so I would seem busy at least 3 hours.

The problem was you could not just sit there and surf the web as an application was recording time spent over various processes. Watching videos in excel counts as excel (the player window even groups together with the excel symbol in the taskbar)
here is the version I used at work: https://github.com/AyrA/ExcelPlayer

You can unprotect the sheets and the code with the password "1234", however, this invalidates the digital signature I attached.

The first sheet serves as playlist. To add a file, right click a media file on your computer while holding shift and select "copy as path", then paste it into the playlist sheet and remove the double quotes

The Control sheet serves for the media controls and the settings sheet currently holds the current playlist item ID.
big ups for using sc2 gif
Props for the SC gif.
[It's not the first time we've had a media player in Excel](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Vs2XUffK-1w), (yup, that is entirely ASCII) but nice job OP.
somehow. Also plays MP3 files. First sheet is a playlist where you add file names to it and then it loops through all files.
I don't know much about excel (I have never ever used VLOOKUP and do not know how it works) but I know VB6 which is almost identical to VBA macros.
Same here man. After I saw the horrible spreadsheets we were using at work I just knew they could be improved. So I sat down with some YouTube tutorials and learned the basics. After having reworked the spreadsheets I had to use personally I have become "the excel wizard" at work.  

I didn't even know there was an excel surreddit!
sure, it was like "It looks like you try to waste time, should I add media player functionality?" and I clicked "Yes"
Clippy has gone to the dark side. Next, he'll be working for ISIS
Here is the link: https://github.com/AyrA/ExcelPlayer

The first sheet serves as playlist. To add a file, right click a media file on your computer while holding shift and select "copy as path", then paste it into the playlist sheet and remove the double quotes

The Control sheet serves for the media controls and the settings sheet currently holds the current playlist item ID.

You can unprotect stuff with the password "1234" if you wish.
You're speaking English, right? 
For an Excel/VBA/coding newbie like myself, how do you go about doing that? I did the following: Open VBA, type password, open Modules > Player, then add PtrSafe to the 1st part to read

    Option Explicit
    Private Declare PtrSafe Function [...]
    Dim Alias As String

Is that correct/enough?
where??


Oops, I didn't see your comment before I made mine, duplicate.
All of the mods are pretty excited right now. Our (somewhat) tiny community is getting a ton of publicity and it is absolutely glorious.
He programmed a rudimentary media player using Excel VBA functions. Basically the Excel spreadsheet is an interface to execute code built in to Windows. It's very, very simple compared to WMP or Media Player Classic but since it all runs through Excel the monitoring software has no idea what is going on and it reports that he's still doing his work. That's the eli15 version at least.
Op was working with a work-provided computer that tracked which programs he was using. He finished the job quickly, but to make sure he got paid for the time allotted, he created a video player in excel so he could watch wall-e to burn time and still look like he was working in excel
guy made mathporn possible
His work is monitoring him, to the extent that they are recording what programs are using system resources on the computer he is using.  
  
By watching movies through Excel, using the Windows api, he is able to fuck around at work, and they think he is using excel...
there is a macro in the back that invokes the "mciSendString" function, which is used to send media commands to windows. With these commands you can use basic stuff like playing and recording media files or open your cup holder (cdrom drive).
Life...finds a way.
But your life more comfortable.
I have 64 bit and it runs fine for me, just so ya know!
Someone found the solution: http://np.reddit.com/r/excel/comments/2jtd2f/worked_on_a_completely_locked_down_machine_time/clf5wdl
[not working for me](http://imgur.com/nrYC6UO)
any ideas?
64bit win7 office2010
I get [an error](http://i.imgur.com/G4uvW7Z.png) when trying to run it as well. I'm running Windows 8.1. "Home/Standard" or whatever it's called (also 64-bit), which doesn't have the Windows 8 Media Center Pack included. Maybe that's what's causing the issue - the relevant Windows API doesn't exist?
I have 64bit 8.1 along with 64bit Office 2010. It works fine. 
Yes: http://np.reddit.com/r/excel/comments/2jtd2f/worked_on_a_completely_locked_down_machine_time/clf5wdl
> 64 bit Orifice

0_o
Did you remove double quotes as specified?
No. Just creative.
"Windows 11 will just be excel, everything you will ever want to run on your computer can be run from excel, even excel"-Microsoft.
Who do you think made Excel able to do this?
I also get this error.
Try playing an MPEG encoded video. Or an mp3.
[VBA](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Visual_Basic_for_Applications) has been around for 21 years.

Whatever version of Excel you have, search how to enable the developer tab. Then you'll have all that you need to create a macro and to do what he did. Basic vbscript will help if you're used to command line stuff, but you'll need to reference how to do specific commands online.
It can get worse, there are companies still on XP with IE6.
At the company where I work right now, the accounting people have big desk calculators with rolls of paper in them. 
A company who hasn't - 

a) bothered to  

b) had to because it works 

c) hasn't because the original devs wanted a stupidly high sum to make changes

d) the original devs are out of business and the new guys quote is ridiculous from the management's POV if the current setup still staggers along - 

updated their main web application in years. 
Cold be any number of reasons, not necessarily fear of technology. Larger companies with ad hoc applications have to roll out updates vvveeerrryyy slowly to make sure they're not breaking their environment for anyone. Rollouts can require tons of hours (heavy hours), so many companies won't bother unless it's absolutely necessary.
I also used the file at home and uploaded it after some tweaking (Pause was not yet implemented for example)
but counts as "mstsc.exe" on the monitoring software and not as work.
[OP did upload the file...](http://www.reddit.com/r/excel/comments/2jtd2f/worked_on_a_completely_locked_down_machine_time/clexjyj)
Here: https://mega.co.nz/#!0shgzIhQ!59Mk1SVnVwh9mGHEmfI9I2RN82gXhVex-LQfkixtsbQ
Here it is: https://mega.co.nz/#!0shgzIhQ!59Mk1SVnVwh9mGHEmfI9I2RN82gXhVex-LQfkixtsbQ


Drawing in forms is highly limited. I recommend a [portable browser](http://portableapps.com/apps/internet) which may fit your needs.
The only thing I can provide off the shelf is [Internet explorer (the installed version) in Excel](http://i.imgur.com/FeQZ9NY.png) but this would not fit your needs.
[That's totally reasonable](https://mega.co.nz/#F!M8gHDJBJ!1pFQ98I2J1fbgl9JSzd1xg)
The API calls should still be present, if winmm.dll is present. And at least the MP3 decoder should be available.
office applications have a code editor built into them (Hit ALT+F11 when in excel/word/powerpoint).
You can write code in Visual Basic and execute it. Visual basic has the neat ability to call functions from arbitrary DLL files on your system, while many features in VBA (the office Visual basic variant) are missing, this ability was kept in. So I basically used the "mciSendString" function which gives you the ability to play any media file which windows media player could, without the need to start windows media player, as you call the function directly.
Yes: https://github.com/AyrA/ExcelPlayer
He should be given Access to a better job.
He's watching movies in his Office 365 days a year.
CARLOS!
Please don't say that Word in the Office or you'll have your Access revoked!
> d was payed by the time it took to modify the excel. Since I was finished rather quickly I would got almost nothing, so I decided to develop this, so I would seem busy at least 3 hours.
> The problem was you could not just sit there and surf the web as an application was recording time spent over various processes. Watching videos in excel counts as excel (the player window even groups together with the excel symbol in the taskbar)

I'm sorry for your employment arrangement. I could never work like that.

EDIT: For those unclear, my statement is one general in nature. Obviously, anyone with even a little sense WOULD take such a job of it was either that or living on the streets. I was not speaking towards such a scenario.
Fucking seriously? So if you tabbed to google a VBA function signature, it wouldn't count for the time you spent in excel?
Do you have any reccommendations for computers that allow internet browsing but with firewalls so you're able to use proxies that arent blocked but unable to install any programs or watch youtube?  I just wanna be able to watch youtube and surf reddit.
They knew that you were finished that quickly and [were more impressed with the implementation of a mediaplayer in a exel file](http://s2.quickmeme.com/img/34/34bde2c7eac4b12fec8ebfad5b806f0f5c12f2f7493fd40ca2e01f5d6c84901e.jpg). 

That monitoring program sounds like one some freelance websites have you install. I guess that one's not as good though, since the ones I've heard about also take screenshots at random intervals... 
What application did they use to monitor  you ?
Wouldn't it have been simpler to just use your phone?
Wow
> You can unprotect the sheets and the code with the password "1234", however, this invalidates the digital signature I attached.

Have you ever killed somebody by using Excel?

I wouldn't doubt it. 
Psh, it doesn't even trim quotes from a path? 2/10  ^^/s
Omg, over a decade using Windows and I didn't know of "copy as path".
Bug report:  Doesn't work in LibreOffice on Linux.  ;)

Fantastic hack.  Congrats.
I'm curious, if the PC was that locked down, how were you allowed to put a large media file on it?

I mean the quite large company I work for lets us run whatever we want (administrator privaleges), but were still locked down from connecting USB drives and copying random shit, or downloading random files without them being scanned and logged.
Compile Error in Excel 2013 running on Windows 7 64 bit. Not sure why.
But thanks for the awesome creation. I wouldn't be surprise if your code was 100% unique. Also, thanks, I've never before known about copy-as-path. I always used to have to go the long route of pulling up the file properties to do this (and I have done so on average once a week for years). Copy Path will likely save me several hours over the next several years.
Quite impressive. The simplicity is shocking. 
Put this on GitHub! 
.
As an IT Admin at a large Multi National, I dont understand why other admins lock down audio playing, its good for assisting work and there is no harm in music.
As a man that likes to write some complex shit in excel, i applaud you for your ingenuity! well done. You win the internet!
Also, as a sys admin, my advice to you, change the name of this document regularly so that YOUR admin doesnt notice and block its launch.
Also change the size constantly as well, write some data to another sheet, take the data out, add some more etc etc so he/she has nothing solid to go on to try to block it.
Also change the save location.
I'm sorta scared to download this on my work computer :)
This is impressive.
TIL Copy as path. 
I am completely speechless. This is pretty amazing
Saved
Could you explain what is going on in that function 'mciSendString' ? That seems to be where the magic happens! 
TIL copy as path. Thanks OP!
This is awesome.
Is there anything like this to watch youtube or even surf internet and stuff :P
This workbook is amazing. Nice Work. 

And if you're ever in the market for a sensei, I'll be the first to put my name down.
Not exactly the same thing. Also impressive, but not the same.
That's because all the real Excel players use INDEX MATCH these days.
Ahhh, see, I clicked "no", that's where I went wrong.
TIL: Shift-right-clicking allows you to do more things.

Any idea why it does that or why it's built like that?
I don't even know what to say to this. It's amazing. Great job. Excel freaking genius.
runtime error type mismatch.

Does this mean it can only play .mkv files and not .mp4?
Sort of
Hey, I almost understood his reference! I have no idea what ptrsafe does, but after 3 weeks of comp sci at uni, I'm pretty impresses with myself.
Hey i don't even know how to get to that screen
From Workbook --> File --> Options --> Customize Ribbon --> (in the column on the right) make sure there is a check in the "Developer" box.  
Back to workbook --> *newly appearing* "Developer" tab --> Click "Visual Basic" button

In Visual Basic go to tree on left expand "VBAProject (Player.xlsm)"
Then expand "Modules" 
Open "Player"
Near the top add the bolded text

 > Private Declare **PtrSafe** Function mciSendString Lib "winmm.dll" Alias  mciSendStringA" (ByVal lpstrCommand As String, ByVal lpstrReturnString As String, ByVal uReturnLength As Long, ByVal hwndCallback As Long) As Long


All this will involve enabling macros, typing in that password he mentioned, disabling protected view, etc. Basically clicking ok through any safety/security roadblocks excel tries to throw up in your way (try at your own risk).

edit: Formatting
I probably should have warned you guys and gals and paper clip assistants before submitting to /r/bestof. 


I was just so excited. >.<
Earned a subscriber,  didn't even think to look into a subreddit like this before. 
[deleted]
Not to be pedantic, but how is this accomplished? 
So... why did the work computer have wall-e on it?
Wait wait... Dumb it down for me. Computer and then what? 
Oh wow. Fuckin' OP, you sly dog. :] Thanks for putting it into layman's terms for me, haha.
I hate that you're right
I'm getting this as well. I am by no means an Excel wizard. Or avid user of Excel. This is the likely the first time I have intentionally opened Excel on this computer. But I must learn this wizardry.
Got the same error on my end, couldn't figure out what the fix was
Probably codec related? Either that or the version with windows 8 has different api calls
Yes, your guess is probably right. I was going to say "version mismatch" but that's pretty much what you said it is.
From the path? Yes.
Exceleption!
Pffft, Linux mastered that already with emacs. One program to run them all!
I ran an mp3. No dice.
The companies I worked at only cared if you had certain entertainment programs opened. Remote desktop generally is seen as a network application so it didn't get flagged. Can't say the same for your company though.
FYI, appears to not work with Open Office :(
[I had to edit your tag](http://i.imgur.com/E62MVzD.png)
He's sure to get a corner Office 
It was only a part time job. The company was happy with the results and they told me they would like to hire me again. Wasn't too bad, in the end I got payed for watching a movie
[deleted]
I only needed to look up the mciSendString function. I was aware that it existed and only needed the VB signature, which took a few minutes. Total excel time was about 98%.
I wonder if you can simply rename the executable.
Yes, set up an SSH server at home that listens on Port 443. Connect to it using Putty (it's portable and does not requires installation). In the putty settings under SSH/tunnels create a dynamic tunnel on port 1337. Then set your system proxy to SOCKS on 127.0.0.1:1337 and you are free to browse whatever you want and it is encrypted. Or open Remote desktop and connect to your home computer and surf from there.
Cell phone with mobile data.
Does ultrasurf still exist?
they did not know I was finished earlier. 
I don't know. They told me that my pay was according to excel usage. There was no visible tool, but a simple process called "monitor.exe" running as system service in the background.
No, but I can think of a way you could.
Deathnote - the excel series
I am still lazy. But I think I will add it in the future
Very useful feature, also right clicking on the empty space in a folder while holding shift gives the option to summon a command prompt in that folder
You can also shift-right click a folder (or on the whitespace in a fokder) to "Open Command Prompt here." Much easier than "cd c:\users\foo\Desktop\leetBatchFilez\" 
Same here. Makes me wonder why it's only available when shift right clicking though. I would have killed to know about that sooner.
I'm a sysadmin who has been using windows for over 20 years.  All the stuff below about opening command prompts and powershell consoles I knew.

Never noticed or heard about "copy as path."
[deleted]
If you connect via SSL, they can no longer see what you do. The file was on my server already.
Locked down in some ways, open in others (sometimes defeating the purpose).
if you need file paths a lot, you might find http://pathcopycopy.codeplex.com interesting/useful.

Have you tried solvin the 2013 issue using this: http://np.reddit.com/r/excel/comments/2jtd2f/worked_on_a_completely_locked_down_machine_time/clf5wdl

seems to work for most people
I tried with MP3s (the media files I have) and it didn't work. Used shadowplay to capture an mp4, it played.
[OK, I did](https://github.com/AyrA/ExcelPlayer)
That is a very legitimate point. I literally had not ever thought about it that way before.
You can save comments.
I have digitally signed the code. If it was bad they would take away the certificate
mciSendString allows you to talk to codecs over a common interface that is independent of the underlying codec. Therefore mciSendString can work for codecs (software video and audio playback) as well as hardware (VCR, CD-Rom, ...).
[It has a predefined command set](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/dd743572\(v=vs.85\).aspx)
index match always feels clunky to code in and if you aren't using massive amounts of source data the performance gains are not really noticiable. that being said i got into the habit of using vlookups and I haven't broke myself of it yet.
[deleted]
Try right click dragging. 

It's built this was to provide specific actions for the application that don't play well with others. 

Ie copy path doesn't help you click and drag a file into another app so it's hidden with a modifier. 

Source : I'm a developer. 
it hides options most users do not need to keep the context menu cleaner.
It exposes options that would be confusing or even dangerous for a layman to have access to.
Built like that to give more options.
This sort of thing is also true for Macs. If you right click on the task bar icon for a running program, you'll see an option to "Quit." Holding option makes that become "Force Quit"
So useful when you are an administrator who needs to use multiple user accounts
Also, right clicking when your mouse is in the totalbbottom left of the screen brings up a load of options on w8
I plan on expanding it by volume controls and probably some more graphs so it looks more link somebody is actually working.
It's probably this issue: http://np.reddit.com/r/excel/comments/2jtd2f/worked_on_a_completely_locked_down_machine_time/clf5wdl

or the codec is not available. The easiest way to check is if windows media player can play it.
I'm not very impresses with your anglais however.
*Bare in mind, I am NOT an expert in Excel or VBA; I have a rudimentary knowledge of these things based on prior tinkering and basic google searches. Try at your own risk.*

Right-click on the ribbon at the top, click Customize Ribbon. Check 'Developer' in the main tabs on the right. Then click Visual Basic on the Developer tab on the far left. That should take you to the VBA screen. Alternatively, press Alt+F11.

Then, on the top-left, click the + next to **VBA Project (Player.xlsm)**, type the password (1234), open Modules, double-click "Player". You should see what I type in my previous comment at the top. You essentially just add "PtrSafe" between the words "Declare" and "Function".

Mine appears to work now.
yes did that. Still get the same error. :( the debug button highlights the following line of code in the file:

     L1 = CLng(Send("STATUS " & Alias & " position"))
Just a quick correction, you forgot the doublequote before mciSendStringA.  So corrected line:
Private Declare PtrSafe Function mciSendString Lib "winmm.dll" Alias "mciSendStringA" (ByVal lpstrCommand As String, ByVal lpstrReturnString As String, ByVal uReturnLength As Long, ByVal hwndCallback As Long) As Long
"IT LOOKS LIKE YOU'RE TRYING TO CIRCUMVENT YOUR NAZI BOSS' WEB FILTER. HOW CAN I HELP?"
From Excel, you can call certain OS functions directly from the spreadsheet. One of the system functions for Windows allows you to play media. What's more, any processes created "belong" to excel, so even a videoplayer can look like excel to a monitoring program. Essentially, he chain loads into a barebones version of Windows Media Player from Excel
You can go a lot deeper into Excel than most people expect; Excel has a programming language built in. Excel VBA = Visual Basic for Applications.
Excel lets you write VBA code tied to your spreadsheet for advanced features. You can do cool things like make it generate charts or modify data based on button clicks. You could have a workbook with multiple sheets and have one button resort all your data based on some criteria.

OP used this functionality to program his spreadsheet to call an external application, in this case WMP, and added other buttons to do things like pause, fast forward, ect.

The reason he did it was because his employer said the only application he can use is Excel, and they monitored his time to make sure he was only doing work and not just running WMP by itself. So by hiding WMP inside Excel he can watch movies while making it look like he's still working.
A VBA macro is allowed to call arbitrary APIs (read: load any code at all from DLLs).
He streamed it from his personal server via SSH inside of excel. Hence the reason many people are pretty damn impressed. 
He had the video files on his server. On the first sheet you enter the files you are looking for and on the second sheet it plays them. So all it looks like is that he is accessing his data on the server while working in Excel. His bosses don't see what files he's accessing.
[deleted]
Magic.
He created a GUI interface using Visual Basic to track the killer's IP.
He made a video player in Excel. Sort of. It just uses Windows to play videos, but they're playing inside Excel.
http://dilbert.com/dyn/str_strip/000000000/00000000/0000000/000000/00000/0000/200/219/219.strip.gif
You are not alone.
I think they only cared for excel usage (to check if I really worked 3 hours or just sat there and did something else).
I don't know if macros work at all in open office. Also the API invoke in the code is windows specific.
Libre Office enables Macro security by default and needs to be disabled, probably the same for Open Office.  It still doesn't function though, for Libre, the syntax isn't compatible.
I also have [a maze generator](https://mega.co.nz/#!4sZjGIIb!tUa6VIEDKTvyw0vl6TDzF1uTBtm5FfJcwFL3OewH_1s) if you want
[deleted]
Maybe they will even let him Paint the new digs.
I know fuck all about excel but with those skills you have you deserve better
Jesus, they have to *pay you* for you to watch Wall E?
Someone should give you a full time job with all fucking benefits. Jesus, talent being wasted man.
Honestly the fact that you even know what a digital signature is tells me that you're really way overqualified to work for a draconian employer like that...
Your attitude is remarkably positive. 

http://media.giphy.com/media/QiynwgyRaBdXG/giphy.gif
So wait, you completed the task, created this document AND had time to watch a movie all in 4 hours?
Good for you, just saying I personally could not work in those conditions.
I can tell you have been in the business for a minute. You charge for four what you can do in one hour, you charge for a month what can be done in a week. This way, you can seem like you did it way ahead of schedule, or just get paid for the four.
They monitored processes but didn't lock down USB and other attachable drives?
Excel is my baby, but you sir. I applaud you.
It's <paid> not <payed>.
I can if you wish: http://imgur.com/FeQZ9NY

Only useful if you have plugins (like flash) but I did not. So reddit was possible, youtube not.
The Visual Studio help browser is an embedded web browser, too bad the MS Office one isn't the same.
Internet Excelplorer
it would count as a different process as the signature was checked.
And then you get busted for sshing to an external resource. That's the most common violation of security rules that our contractors commit.
Thanks, gonna try this today
You can also download chrome. Under settings. .. extensions.  Add more extensions.  Search for zenmate.  Follow the directions.    I don't work for zenmate or have an interest in them... it just works for me.
> Or open Remote desktop and connect to your home computer and surf from there.

I use TeamViewer for that. Fun times :)
That's so 1337
Putty + PortableFirefox + SSH server somewhere in the world.

Use Putty to tunnel out (our office allows it because it's required for a lot of tools).

Portable firefox/Chrome because we can't install anything.

SSH server to act as an endpoint for the SOCKs tunneling.
I use that and tether to a small personal laptop hidden under my desk and connected to my peripherals via a KVM. I can surreptitiously swap between work and personal laptop without raising suspicion even when I was in a cube farm.


Dunno, cant swim.
I've heard of Time doctor  before. 
Explain 
O.o
Just write a brief for your personal assassin in an excel format, they can easily do the rest.
Dude, at the point when you made a multimedia player in excel you have no right to call yourself lazy. 
Oh my god. It ~~*fucking magically*~~ adds it to the dropdown list. Thank you!
You just blew my mind. Where can I learn more?
"Summon a command prompt" sounds way cooler than "open a command prompt".  From now on I'm saying the former.
Jesus. I knew of shift +rclicking a folder, didn't know you can do it from inside the folder as well.

I feel that this new-found knowledge will change my life forever.
lesser known (and probably less useful) feature: alt+right clicking makes the menu appear, then disappear immediately
or open the folder and type "cmd" (without the quotes) in the adressbar. also works with "powershell"
Wow. Thanks!
> %USERPROFILE%\Desktop\leetBatchFilez

:P
Why can't they change this to Powershell? 
Whale Oil beef hooked!
>leetBatchFilez

I'm dead 
The one I learned recently is if you drag a file into the command prompt window, it automatically pastes the path!
There are several options only visible via shift+click. They are mostly uncommon options used by developers, so it doesn't make a lot of sense bloating the normal menu.
It's only been available since Vista. I think.
http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-CjAp7inkHK4/UczGI8K_qHI/AAAAAAAAOaA/oIRu7zGQwnc/s320/Whoosh.jpg
thatsthejoke.jpg
not even kind of true. this completely depends on the type of monitoring software. I've used systems where everything you do, encrypted or not, is recorded on the local machine before being sent up for analysis. and if you trip a trigger youre looking at full blown keystroke and screen recording. not to mention reporting every process and the metadata associated with it. 

never make assumptions regarding the limitations of businesses monitoring their employees unless you dont mind risking your job. 
Just going to a shoot a warning out to people doing that.  It is not unheard of to scan the contests of your work station disk.  Be careful with the naming and file formats if your company ignorantly locks shit down like that.
This is not strictly speaking true. If you've that kind of level of security AD makes it trivial to push out a trusted root cert controlled by the organisation's IT function to every machine connected to the Domain.
Once the computers have a trusted root cert that you control it becomes trivial to MitM every single connection on the network.
Lots of companies have ways to do man-in-the-middle with SSL so they can tell where you're going.  Usually they aren't going to be inspecting that traffic that close, but "they can no longer see what you do" isn't always true.
make sure you don't have a local root CA added through domain policy before doing this. 
Nice, i starred :)
. And .
THE FUTURE IS *NOW*
I don't use it for the performance, I just prefer the flexibility. I like being able to do lookups right to left and being able to tweak it for horizontal or matrix lookups.

Once you get used to the syntax, you'll never go back.
If everyone got 30 different options they would be SO confused. I just got done with teaching someone how to Ctrl-C and Ctrl-V IN A PROGRAMMING CLASS. I'm pretty sure she would hang herself if she was able to do the shit that you can do with shift-right clicking.
Also, shift+right-click on a folder lets you open a command window there.  Highly useful.
does it work for excel 2013?
Didnt work for me the debug option highlights the 

           L1 = CLng(Send("STATUS " & Alias & " position"))

line
Did you delete all of his song file names and replace them with ones from your own computer?
Huh weird, I just copied and pasted from the excel book. And it's correct in there. Maybe it got messed up by the formatting? I don't know. Thank you though!
Thanks. With all of these replies I'm getting an inkling of an understanding of what might be occurring here.
Ok, thank you. I know next to nothing about the inner workings of sowftware. To quote the immortal Sergeant Oddball " I only ride 'em, I don't know what makes 'em work."
Damn. That's some boredom right there. And some crazy skill. 
This isn't ELI5, it's ELIdoge. But that's not a bad thing.
You mean witchcraft.
VBA to be exact. 
pfft, that only works with IPs that have at least one octet above 300...
It's super impressive what you did with excel!
I just went ahead and tagged you as 'God of MS Excel'.
You're just insane xD
Word.
What's "better" for an Excel expert? He's already being hired by companies to solve Excel problems and then he overbills them by 3 hours, so it seems like he's working in a job perfectly suited to his skills.
Yes, it was one of those strange contracts, where you have maximum X hours to complete, but should get as close to X since you are paid by actual time consumption. They looked at the software and 3 hours with 98% excel usage paid well.
I have a full time job. I just do these half-a-day jobs if they come by and my time schedule allows it.
I met that guy once in a Jugo juice by my house. 
yes, task only took like 45 minutes, which would gave a pay closely related to "nothing", so I did this. I did only managed to watch the half movie. As soon as I was a few minutes in, I had another idea, stopped the movie and programmed more into it. At first there was no playlist at all, just the hardcoded mkv file.
Youre kinda sassy
You should try working with odesk... It's like Orwell himself designed that shit. 
USB was locked down. I downloaded the movie from my server
holy shit
Even their html5 videos? Now I have to watch YouTube in Excel.
Yer a wizard, /u/Ayra_ch.
Let's tag you as "Excel Magician" ..
Wow, looking through the rest of your comments I have to say I'm very impressed at your skills. My vote is to make a Game Boy emulator next time you're needing to burn some time. High school freshman me and current me would both be equally amazed!
Holy shit that's impressive.
There's gotta be some way of planting a back door in there. 
Also, Execu is already a pretty good name for a table.
For this reason you use Port 443, so a Firewall cannot distinguish between SSL traffic and SSH traffic.
If you cannot set the system proxy, download [a portable firefox](http://portableapps.com/apps/).
When creating the tunnel in putty, create a Dynamic tunnel using IPv4. You are free to choose any port number, 1337 was always unused for me but you can also use 12345. Leave the "destination" field empty, if done correctly, the list will contain an entry "4D1337".

If you go for the remote desktop method keep in mind:

- Remote desktop needs to be activated on your home machine
- The account on your home computer needs a password
- You need to forward port 3389 (TCP) on your router
- You need to know your home IP address if you are at work. [A dynamic DNS name might help](http://no-ip.com). You can either configure it on your computer on (if supported) on your router.

At work, run "MSTSC.exe". it is inside your windows\system32 directory. Sometimes a link is available in the accessories start menu item.

The Putty/SSH method is more suitable for video streaming, remote desktop allows you to execute almost anything on your home computer that is not video intensive.
can confirm, this is what I used to use in high school because I disagreed with their firewall
Do it over 443 and its pretty much impossible to distinguish legitimate ssl traffic from an SSH proxy tunnel unless you restrict to certain destination IPs, which is rarely done. 
Tutorial please.
Ssh tunneling is one of those things I should totally know, given my job, but I don't. Never had to use it but fuck if I understand what goes on there.... 
Since you can access the whole Windows API, you could build a simple proxy, that intercepts the connection of an important medical program and falsify data so patients get overdoes of medications.
If you want to do more VBA programming, I actually recommend you to learn VB6. Visual basic is a nasty little language as it allows you to do things in a way you should not but that makes it exceptionally easy to work with. VBA is basically VB6, stripped of some features, but added with excel/word/powerpoint capabilities, depending on which office application you run.
(Windows vista + windows 7) also right clicking the empty space on the start menu while holding ctrl and shift allows you to exit explorer.exe normally instead of killing it
That's a new one for me. Awesome.
Didn't know this. thanks!
http://www.hanselman.com/blog/IntroducingPowerShellPromptHere.aspx
You can type in "powershell" in the address bar and it will open to the current directory.
[For future reference.](http://i.imgur.com/LJZfc.gif)
I don't get it... I still can't get it to work on linux either
It's also quite trivial to MITM an ssl connection in this scenario. So they can, in fact,  see what you do if they want.
counter-.
[LOOK AT ALL THE WONDERFUL THINGS YOU CAN DO](http://youtu.be/vtkGtXtDlQA)
i have never considered those applications for index match i have always just considered it identical to a vlookup.

Some people are still trying to remember Ctrl-C/Ctrl-V every time they want to copy/paste, others still have trouble remembering Numlock-Asterisk to recursively unfold a file tree in Explorer ;)

There's a lot of stuff you read about, but it takes time for the human mind to implement it into routine. It just takes practice. 

First using things like Win-E, but especially the lesser used stuff like Ctrl-Shift-N (new folder), Alt-D (type path), Alt-P (toggle preview pane), Ctrl-Shift-Click on taskbar/start (to open as admin)... 

It's all combos which can improve productivity immensely once you get used to it, but mostly you tend to just read it somewhere and think "oh that's useful", immediately fogetting it again. 

Which is why I just took a week for each key combo, and "practiced" it multiple times a day. That way, you start using it automatically after a while.
Shift+right click on an empty space inside the folder also opens a command window in there. I use this option more than the former.
I use this so fucking often. Pretty much the only thing I used shift-right click for until just now.
It should. I am not using any exotic commands.
You're trying to play non MPEG video.
yep. exactly the way he said to...
Magic dust sprinkled on the keyboard.
VBA is generally meant to be used for more complicated macros and such, but it is a more or less fully featured programming language. Windows comes with a lot of built in bits and pieces of code that you could technically make use of with VBA if you know about it. He could have embedded a working internet explorer window into excel the same way.
Very work

Such restrict

So excel

Wow movies

Wow
ELIGrog
That should be a subreddit.

Totally subscribe. So much upvotes.
I do not even know how VLOOKUP works.  The only thing I know is how to **abuse** excel
. ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^0.0697 
Quick someone call microsoft and tell them to hire and give this man a microsoft office suite 
Shhh! He'll use Excel on you if you're not careful!
When you put it that way, the shoe fits.
> He's already being hired by companies to solve Excel problems and then he overbills them by 3 hours

It's not so much "overbills" as "justlybills". The arrangement was basically unconscionable, where he'd get paid less for the exact same work the more skilled he was. This is no worse than working at 25% speedto stretch it out, or being marginaly competent and actually taking 4 hours to figure out what the hell you're doing.
Where does one find half day Excel jobs?  I'm very interested. 
Did he fuck with you?
Sure it wasn't an illusion? Check your house for candybar wrappers 
A little off topic, but could you give some specifics as to why? I'm currently considering doing a bit on oDesk to make some cash but mostly to brush up on my writing skills. I'm curious as to why you might be saying this.
That seems like it's really easy to get around via a virtual machine. 

Just install all the applications you need and then the odesk software to the virtual machine and then just do things on the real machine while the virtual machine runs.
Not to downplay AyrA. and his mastery, but there is an IE web browser control, which you can freely insert.
And then go to excel online and open up a web browser within a web browser 
You will always get the current IE engine. If Internet Explorer can handle it, this form could too. But somebody di not want to use IE, so I am currently looking into making chrome running inside excel
I don't know if excel is fast enough.
There is no drawing functionalities in excel as far as I remember and drawing into the cells would be far too slow.

But I could be nasty and just render a java application in the form.
Data>Import>From External Source (or something close to that).

It opens a browser for you.
The host is not whitelisted, so if you route a lot of traffic through your proxy, it bubbles up to the top of the security report. Then you get a visitor from the infosec.
It is possible though. You can even host a webserver, VPN and SSH on TCP 443 with a multiplexer like SSLH. Some firewalls also do similar packet inspection.
Also slightly dangerous with poor passwords due to the ability to brute force the password with simple tools. Use long complex passwords and dont leave it open forever.  Also if the connection is MITM or monitored by DLP you can have your password stolen or what you do monitored. 
I set up a SSH server for my friend who was deployed in Iraq. No questions were asked.
Unless your SSL is mitm'ed by the proxy (by adding a company root certificate, and forging certificates). Which is immoral (in my opinion), but is done in some corporate environments.
http://blog.ashurex.com/2012/03/15/creating-ssh-proxy-tunnel-putty/
hey computer at home, go to gmail for me and return me some data.

as opposed to, hey gmail, oh wait, you are block from work, eh nevermind.

bad: you <-> gmail

good: you <-> computer at home <-> gmail
fucking hell man
OP u crazy
Holy Moly, could you do it to get me some viagra? heard that shits nice

Have you heard of the dystopian (you, on the other hand, might consider it a utopian) novel 'Daemon'? 


How ironic... even in 2033 Excel is still prevalent enough to be used against you in your demise. You will have grown to be too powerful by then, and the government decides to kill you.


They call-in a team of Microsoft office experts who get to work engineering tons of weaponized hacks in office. The Word team creates a back door to the computer power supply that overheats and explodes whenever the letter "q" is used in a complete sentence. This is designed to kill you. The PowerPoint team creates a slideshow with the brown note embedded within. This is designed to make you shit yourself; an equally satisfying outcome.


The Excel team... jealous of your success over them... embed special logic into their program that make it calculate incorrect results 1/50th if the time. It's these phantom, unreproducable errors that eventually drive you crazy, causing you to view the modified excel help PowerPoint, shitting yourself, opening up word to write a complaint letter, and as soon as you start typing-out the modern insults of the day, Word 2030 autocorrect feature kicks-in, adjusting your spelling of the phrase "mother fuckers" to be spelled with a "Q", and Clippy appears on screen for 4 seconds without saying a word, staring deep into your soul until the embers burst forth suddenly from the quantum CPU container and engulf your shitty, 2 bedroom, carpeted apartment.


The city holds a parade to celebrate the death of the excel overlord, who grew too powerful in a time of tragic consequence.


The brown note lives through another 6 versions of PowerPoint before the QA engineers discover and remove it (the automated tests were not susceptible to the brown note and thus never detected it).


Steve Ballmer delivers the eulogy at your funeral. Since you had no recoverable body they instead buried a stack of excel spreadsheets.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barnaby_Jack#Pacemakers
Jesus Christ man it's just a spreadsheet. 
That's some CIA shit right there
Our e prescribing system had a glitch where it was suggesting a dose of hydromorphone around 10000 times higher than normal.  

Still needed to be authorised by the prescriber and if I had missed it, the nurse faced with administering it would soon have noticed something out of place when he needed a bucket for the pills.

But yeah, keep it's subtle like slight increased dose And more frequently team usual, it'll probably slip throughput
You responded suspiciously fast....
I'm pretty sure you are the Nazi Bill Gates I used to see in in custom Windows boot up screens.
I've actually done a bit of VBA work, writing some workflow tools for Autodesk Inventor and MS Project to make my life easier. Visual basic is nasty yes, it's always felt like I just can't get a good grip on the syntax and the way it does things, something just feels off in the way it wants me to work. It seems very useful to become skilled at it though, seeing as how it plugs into all things microsoft, do you have any good resources on vb6 that you'd recommend?

The shift+rightclick thing blew my mind, I've been using windows for years, can't fathom how I've never noticed that...
hey guys I'm dumb and have no idea what the joke is and I have no idea how to even search google for the joke.  

I am just a dumb Gaja.

**Edit** Admit you don't know something, that's a downvote.  Geez thanks for being jerks.
You can always check out the chain of trust to see what CA on the machine accepted it.
counter of your counter-.
[Counter-.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IQbxsGtyc2g)
It would be more useful if those tips we shown somewhere in the UI if you made a registry edit. 
some of us are having issues on 64bit machines. I got mine working though. but thank you so much for this! it's so neat.
yeah MP4. is it only thing that windows media player can play?
#
Given that I consider it an achievement that I made a pie chart in excel... yeah, you are no slouch.
As a mod, this whole situation is makin me Groove. 
Hello, I'm a Publisher and I'd like to license this circle jerk for print.
This whole thread is getting clippy. 
He DOS great work. 
I could write Pages about this.  In fact, I would like to make it the Keynote of my Numbers presentation.
It's overbilling because he charged 3 hours for watching Wall-E and personal projects, that's pretty cut and dried. 

> where he'd get paid less for the exact same work the more skilled he was.

You have a warped idea of hourly pay. If you're not making enough money as a highly skilled worker, and the client can pay more, then you should charge more per hour or simply implement minimum charges. Higher skilled people *should* charge more to get things done faster. Quality and speed are what you expect from a higher price tag that goes with higher skill level. But faking 3 hours of work is overbilling, whether you feel good about it or not.

The bigger question is "do I care?", and I certainly don't. Later in his career neither will he, he'll put minimums in place.
I got contacted because somebody at the company knew me and they were unhappy with the current contractor.
Use elance instead. Clients rarely require you to turn on the tracker and most writing jobs are fixed $. I work about 6/hr a week through long-term arrangements found on elance and support all my expenses+student loan payments with it. 
Odesk, the website, is the best freelancing website I've ever come across. However, all of it integrates with their client application which:

* Randomly takes screenshots of your entire screen (in an interval of ~10 minutes)
* Graphs your "activity" (number of keystrokes and mouse moves in that ~10 span) in a 1 to 10 meter, which means that if your client is *dumb* and you're doing something like drawing mockups on paper, it will seem like you're ripping him off
* Even asks you if it can turn on your webcam (never allowed it too, but ... wtf)
* If by any chance the screenshot captures something you don't want (say, the exact time you were switching a song on youtube), you CAN remove that shot ... but lose those 10 minutes worth of money.

So ... it's like installing a full-access virus on your machine and being happy about it.
If it's locked down so far that you can't run WMP I don't think it would let you install VM software, unless the computer had Hyper-V and that wasn't disabled.
Odesk takes webcam and desktop screen caps too though _ , it's some real evil shit. I only ever make fixed pay contracts, so I don't care how you spend your time as long as the job is done to spec.
I don't work with odesk anymore (at least for now), but I thought about doing that for a while ... when it started to really bother me, I just got lucky that my clients there trust me enough to leave the platform. But yeah, it seems like a good idea!
i am having such a nerdgasm in this thread right now

My wife doesnt get it
Going the Java route definitely would work, though since I've seen some of your other projects I know why you don't automatically lean that direction. Would it be possible to write a drawing function into Excel, and then use that for the emulator - or would that also be "cheating"?
What about using ASCII text? One other poster (somewhere WAY above here) showed an AC/DC video using ASCII. I think that would be perfect for a GameBoy emulator.
would a Tetris clone be feasible? The cells could be individual squares that form the blocks.
It should not. People listening to webradio streams or watching youtube videos will always be above you. Using proxy auto configuration you can write a proxy script that only redirects certain page calls through your proxy.

[if you need examples you can look at this page I did a while ago](http://ayra.ch/pac/). The listed servers on the site no longer work, but you can download the zip and examine the pac files with notepad to see what is going on
to evade DPS, I recommend you to build an SSL tunnel around your SSH session, this way it becomes indistinguishable from HTTPS traffic if you use SSLv3 or newer protocol
Thanks! didnt think i would actually get one
but still, that doesn't happen overnight or by yourself.
[I know](https://mega.co.nz/#F!M8gHDJBJ!1pFQ98I2J1fbgl9JSzd1xg)
the patent for viagra expired lately, you are free now to buy legit cheap clones of it at any drug store
No. I watched the [Echelon conspiracy](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Echelon_Conspiracy) a while ago which seems to be similar
This and its sequel Freedom^TM by Daniel Suarez are one of the best books I've read. 

+/u/dogetipbot 100 doge verify
the irony is, he died of overdose http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barnaby_Jack#Death
so you can keep a log of what you did.
I am at home at the moment
Sorry, I can't tell you where to start. I did most of it by myself. Just asking myself a simple question like "can I make a calculator" and then tried it out. The page I used for reference is no longer available since a few years now.
I taught myself most of it using Google and Youtube. There are also lots of forums out there where you can ask questions and get very specific answers on code and syntax. I'm nowhere near the level of making my own media player, but I get by. You really need a specific reason to make yourself learn it though.
For the record I didn't realize you actually didn't get the joke, I thought you were making fun of the other guy.

Here is the explanation:

* OP says he used Windows functions to make Excel into media player
* Guy #1 jokingly complains that it doesn't work on Linux
* Guy #2 misses the joke and explains the reason why it doesn't work on Linux.
Windows API no worky on Linux 
The first step is admitting you have a problem.
Yes, and in many corporate scenarios that will be an corp-issued CA cert installed as trusted in your browser/OS.
BA
Are we playing Magic: The Gathering now? 
> got mine working though

how? :)
you guys have done an excellent job sharing these puns with all of us. i'm going to give you all sharepoints!
Zune or later this is gonna get old
microsoft stuff

shit
I'm an artist that likes to work within his Visual Studio.
> elance 

"hey, that sounds like it could be interesting"

> Magazine Cover & Magazine Layout Designed

> Hourly Rate: About $3 / hr


aaand it's dead to me.
Actually oDesk and Elance have merged as one company. The brands are still separate. oDesk has worked great for me. It also gives you fixed amount jobs and hourly jobs. I don't mind using the tracker from time to time. You only need to use the tracker if specified and working on hourly jobs.
Wow. elance may actually have the worst business website ever. Not even so much as an "about us" link unless you join. You would think they could find a freelancer to make their website less useless. 
Ouch, that sounds bad. But at that point, might as well dedicate a computer to it (synergy) or a VM and use the other for the rest.
I was talking about Odesk specifically, in which you are on your own machine and install the software itself. This obviously wouldn't work for OP though since it seems it's not his machine.
That would probably work. But it would maybe be the better idea to write a DLL that handles the emulation in the background and just sends back screen images
You can google this. I think it should be available somewhere already.
YT and radios are already blacklisted, of course.
[deleted]
once you know what you are doing it's about 3 steps. It's just a really wordy tutorial
YOU didn't happen overnight or by yourself!
What am I looking at here? I don't have Excel on this system, so I can't just check the files and find out. 
Awesome dogecoin you got there!

Have some doge! +/u/dogetipbot 100 doge verify
http://www.foxnews.com/story/2009/02/26/man-28-dies-after-guzzling-viagra-during-12-hour-romp/

Looks like OP could actually do this thing.
Hmm not too much. Daemon starts with a guy being found dead. As it turns out, that guy was a real IT ace that programmed a Daemon, with some kind of artificial intelligence, which reacts to certain events and cues a specific response (hence daemon), but in the real world (like killing people).

 It's distinctly similar to the second half of Transcendence, should you have had the pleasure of watching the latter.
__^[wow ^so ^verify]__: ^/u/Arthur_C_Doge ^-> ^/u/staubsau_ger __^100 ^Dogecoins__&nbsp;^__($0.023347)__ ^[[help]](http://www.reddit.com/r/dogetipbot/wiki/index)
I'm honoured to have been tipped by a real Sir but I respectfully decline since I have absolutely no idea what to do with it or how to do anything. 
Some coders like their cocaine. And a few other pills just seems like he would have been smart enough not to do them at the same time.
I meant with your excel murder plan you just happen to have ready to go! :P
I'm glad this is here because Guy #2 shamefully deleted his post
Do you have any record of the explanation? I'd actually like to know why it doesn't work on Linux...
I actually don't know the joke :(
That's why you need to look at it.  See if it's signed by the right CA.  If not, you're being MITM'd.
Start
i simply added something.


1. press alt+411
2. double click vbaproject, enter password 1234
3.expand modules
4. double click player
5. added "PtrSafe" in between Declare and Function

Declare **PtrSafe** Function
I'd love to Exchange some more puns with you good people. 
I'd work on that Project.
You make a Powerful Point sir. 
You couldn't come up with One Note that would fit?
Sounds like a great Project!
>I am in need of a magazine cover and layout from someone with experience in fashion and magazine design
The book is 32 pages 
a cover and index page
need completed within a week

Holy shit you weren't kidding.  They even have the audacity to specify that you have to use the Workview app - that proves you spent the correct amount of hours working on it, so they don't overpay you.


The obvious solution is to commission an odesk worker to defeat the tracker application. 
youtube constantly changes IP addresses when they install new server or buy additional bandwidth. It is insanely hard to track it. They only would need to globally deny HTTP POST requests to solve most of the data leaking problem.
Well, he may have happened overnight, but he just as easily could have been the product of some afternoon delight. I'm talking about daytime love-making... the naughty type.
You are looking at a Video/Audio Player in Excel with playlist support. It allows you to play multimedia files on locked down systems, while the playback is counted as Excel usage, since excel.exe stays the active process
Thank you, it's crazy how you guys are everywhere
You would need inside knowledge of the application to abuse it
Die hard.
He still won the bet though.  So at least had that going for him.  Which was nice...
Pfft they killed him.   Do you ever realize how many potatoes $4k can buy!?
That's ok :)

In case you change your mind there you can read how to use dogetipbot [here](http://www.reddit.com/r/dogetipbot/wiki/gettingstarted) and also visit the nicest place on reddit ;) /r/dogecoin
Since you can access the network you can basically modify anything that is connected to the internet now. Traffic lights, elevators, doors, medical devices, ATMs.

Just thinking about it, the elevator trick could work. Just releasing the brake with one person in it would send the elevator upwards insanely fast since the counterweight is heavier. The governor of older elevators often only prevent falling down, but not up, so you would crash into the ceiling.

Anyway, next question please
It's still there for me. Wait, that's because I posted my reply to this post before you made your post just now. 
It probably invokes Windows processes in order to open the movie or accesses the core of Windows Media Player, without technically using the WMP main application.

Edit: I've been using 'per se' wrong my whole life.
Because linux doesn't have the windows api...
This Excel sheet works by accesings **WINDOWS** API. Not having Windows as an operating system would render this hack useless.
Not actually part of the original code, surprisingly. You just had to press start to get past the start screen.
thanks. i was too quick to ask questions, i should've read the rest of the thread. 
