It's only taken me a year...
how much does it cost?
Is it worth anything? Did you get a raise? At this point I assume most businesses assume youre proficient in office
What would you say was the total cost for all the classes and exams? Is it feasible to just get certified in excel?
[deleted]
How long does the certification last?

Why did you get 2010 certification, when Office 2013 has been out for nearly 2 years now?  Isn't that a detriment?
Congrats! I had a 2002 certification of the same type, although with access instead of outlook. I wonder how much the tests have changed since then!
Excel and Word had to be Expert levels, right? Did you do the basic level before? I'm wondering if I should go for Expert or Specialist level as I consider myself fairly skilled with Excel already
Congratulations man! 

Do you have your next goal ready in mind to conquer? 
What format are the questions? Do you perform the actions in a mockup of the program, or are you reciting button names?
Damn, I was in Australia when this thread opened. Hope you're still here to answer some of my questions!

As a recent A-Level school leaver, I'm quite interested in taking exams to prove my "proficiency"/broaden my knowledge in Microsoft products, therefore I have several questions to ask! 
Ultimately, I wish to be recognised as an Excel MVP at some point in my life.

1. Out of all Microsoft products, which would you say required the most knowledge in?

2. I assume you live in the UK? And if you don't mind me asking, do you have a university degree? If so, what degree do you have?

3. How many years experience do you have in Excel?

4. Did you have to "study" for your exam or did you take the exams based on your level of confidence on Microsoft products?

Thanks in advance! I think /r/excel is very lucky to have you as a moderator here :D
So how does this work? What are the exams like? What do they consist of? I love and use Excel all the time, would it be hard for me to become certified?
well done mate
Did you pick Outlook, Access, or Sharepoint when choosing your 4th program?

How long did it take to master excel, and what resources did you use to get your skills up?
Hey, congratulations man! My goal is also to become ms specialist some day. I am curious where did you learn from, do you recommend someone/something? Also, is it a lot of VBA coding included in the exams?

Thanks!
What was a hard question that stuck out to you?
About £350 for all 4 exams including fees.
It helped me secure two different jobs over the last year - one as new graduate and one while as a midly experienced analyst.

It changes that 'profficient with excel' bullet point on your Cv/resume from a statement to fact

I actually got a 3k increase on my initial job offer.
Resume line. I added PMI Member to my resume since the State grant I got for the education included a year of membership.  
Return calls increased as a result. It validated my commitment to the profession. 
the good thing is that being 'proficient in office' doesn't actually say anything. having this certification proves a certain amount of knowledge in a somewhat standardized way. 
Being "Proficient" in office means you know how to open the programs and use basic functions, or maybe even less. It really means nothing and it's just use to gague if you a technophobe or not. 
All exams cost me £350 altogether.

You can do just one unit its under £100. Google certiport mos centres.
1 hour per unit if you have a good understanding of everything already.plenty of revision tools including Youtube
2010 is still the standard, and when I started taking the 2010 exam - I had not touched upon the 2013 version yet.

Besides, there is no discernible difference between 2010 and 2013 in terms of functionality - and a vast majority of the new features that are available in 2013 e.g. PowerPivot aren't used throughout industries.

And I believe it lasts for life.
2010 is still the gold standard in most companies.
I went straight to expert level.

If you can confidently use all tabs and buttons on the ribbon in Excel and understand the options menu then you'll be fine.
Yeah.

Earn 50k a year before I'm 25 xD
Its an actual excel program in a test environemnt and you have to actually use it to get to an end result.
Access requires the most knowledge mainly because of SQL AND VBA. They are native to Access.

I have a BSc in Economics and an MSc in Investment and Finance.

I have 6 years professional experience in Excel, using it since I was quite young and long before most people start using it the way i did.

I put in an hour of prep, mainly going through the syllabus making sure i understood each point and was confident with it. I also watched some examples of questions on YouTube.

My advice would be to know what everything in every single tab in the program does. The exam is more about an overall understanding as opposed to detailed knowledge.

Ill add some links to the questions into the OP so you can check out the questions.
Outlook.

Id say youd need a year of experience of all aspects to be comfortable with it.

There should be a syllabus online.
Theres also a sticky on the front page of resources.

I learnt through usage and experience of Excel. Had very little in terms of learning materials. 

The sticky on the front page contains pretty much all of the tools you'll need to become a pro at Excel.

Very little in terms of VBA - my exam had no vba questions at all
Nothing difficult that stuck out.

But there were ALOT of PivotTable questions.
well, that's to much for me. Tho i agree, that it is nice to actually have a proof of your skilllevel you point out in your cv
Forgive my ignorance, but does the certification include training? Or is it a one time exam only?
I work for a company that supports Fortune 500 employees on their use of Office.  Windows 10 and Office 15 are going to hit upgrade cycles for a crapload of those companies that are still on XP or who were early Windows 7 migrations.  Microsoft is pushing SharePoint and BI features hard going forward.  I wouldn't write them off.
Thanks, I might just go for it before the year's end
Did you receive a certificate for Expert as well as Master? I completed the exam for Excel expert successfuly (yay, me!) but I'm wondering if it's just the Excel Expert that I'm certified as or MOS Expert as a whole. I just have the Excel available on MOS site now
Obviously you are not Australian, grad pay here starts at around 60k (21 years old) at 25, 150k isn't impossible
> uestions - let me kno

We want links! :D
Congratulations, and that sounds helpful, thanks
I had my employer pay for me as part of my CPD.

After he bought the vouchers for me, I coincidently left the company but kept the vouchers...
Exams only
You become an expert after doing one exam.

Master is four different exams, 3 core modules 1 optional choice.
clever!
Yes, I know. I'm just wondering if it'll show up separately from Excel Expert
