How to learn advanced excel skills and where to obtain data sets (potentially with problems) to practice on?
/r/datasets if you haven't already found it. Some of the stuff that pops up is in xlsx...  
Depending on how advanced, I started with the following, and like someone else said you can use any of these for other formulas as well:

http://people.highline.edu/mgirvin/excelisfun.htm
In the UK, our government has got more data than they know what to do with. Consequently, loads of it is going begging at www.data.gov.uk

If you're into modeling and such, you could always download historical stock price data (volumes, etc.) from any source such as Yahoo or Google Finance.
www.wiley.com/go/excel2013bible
www.ed2go.com has classes in intermediate and advanced Excel that come with files. I took both. Good classes.
Just create your own.  I can't think of a function that would require more than a dozen rows and a few columns,  for proof of concept stuff
http://excelexposure.com/ is decent, I haven't gone through the whole thing so I dont know how advanced it gets but it's great for beginners to intermediate at the very least.
That sort of depends what is your ultimate goals.

Do you want to learn how formulas work? You can create your own datasets since you only need few columns and few dozens rows (real data sets are bigger but each row is treated the same and most of the columns are not relevant)

If you keep learning the formulas/methods etc and then keep forgetting them due to lack of practice that gets more tricky. It would be best if you started utilising excel in your daily life and use it even when it is overkill (also do things properly even when quick and dirty solution would be more time efficient - ie. using vlookups rather than manually copying that 2 rows that you are after etc). Of course if you work the way to go is to use it in your work and learn on the job.
[deleted]
http://i.imgur.com/g90Kl39.jpg
I found this volume to have virtually no practice at all beyond viewing example spreadsheets that aren't that useful
those problems are meh/10.
Took me a minute. I kept wondering what the joke was with misspelling "assets". 
