I have reached 200 dreams on my dream statistics spreadsheet, thanks to those on here who helped me through some problems I had with it! What are some hobbies you use spreadsheets for?
That's some impressive attention to detail! I'm boring, I only use excel for my home budget (use it regularly at work though).
Coffee.

I have a spreadsheet where I put the kind of bean, amount in grams, how fine was the grind, how hard I tamped, how long the extraction took and they I assess the taste.

Once I get sample big enough I plan to do econometric analysis on it.
I'm managing my family budget in google drive. Doesn't sound like much of a hobby, but problem solving and adding new features is so fun.  
Not to mention the cockiness every time it balances perfectly on the first try.  
Currently working on a spreadsheet to track paying down our student loans...proving more complex than I'd like, but it's more interesting than copy/pasting at work.
Hobbies, nutrition counter, todo list, weight, places I want to travel, half marathon training, a shopping guide... it goes on and on and on. Really any way in which I generate data, I try to capture and recognize trends. It's a hobby with little problems to solve. My gf thinks I'm a nerd.
Dang, this is so cool to look at. Kind of makes me want to do one too - I dream at least once per night, every night. Only a few times have I woken up and not been able to remember what I dreamed.

I keep track of hikes that I want to do, and ones I have done. I include things like how long it would take to drive there, how long it would take to hike, elevation, distance, difficulty level, page (in a book if there is one) or link to route, and months available.
Fantasy football!

I've recently discovered the 'import data from website' function, so now my spreadsheet will import the premier league data for each player, sort it, and tell me who is doing the best for the best price, and I can put them in my team! Hopefully this will win me my league, im doing awful at the moment.
I've built a spreadsheet that analyses my golf game
I'm building a timeline of recorded human history. For... funsies?
I have been working on my family tree off and on for 30 yrs. The latest tool is doing dna testing. I use excel to narrow down matches with others.
Eve Online, it's semi jokingly called Spreadsheets Online for a reason.

Any game where I'm trying to optimise some thing like building, mining, yields and so on. Things like cookieclicker is another example.

I've used them to help in character creation in tabletop gaming, such as DnD and cyberpunk. 

I also made on at work for a complex footy tipping game that my manager wanted to run. I don't care about football, but I do love a good spreadsheet.
Let me know if you do ever make your own dream sheet :D


Smart! Goodluck with that :D
Does it show things like improvement over time?
Thats awesome! Is it sharable yet?
Shameless plug: /r/Genealogy
I recently started DnD and I want to track some stuff, is there any good functions for it I should know about?
Check it out here at my old blog, describes how to use it etc. http://droppin-bombs.blogspot.com/2012/05/analysing-my-game.html?m=1
Why thank you. I have a feeling it'll be one of those permanently unfinished things so I'm not totally sure why I'm doing it.
Yup use it and help others with their trees. Its an addiction
Nothing special realy, just very simple formulas for working out derived stats, like armour class. In other game systems I'd use it to work out how many skill points I could use with different options.
Wow, I love it! Fantastic job! Sadly I don't play golf so I can't use it, but it looks like it could be helpful to those who do
That was a dumb way of saying no it's not yet. But I like to think in the future it will be one of those Wiki-style, crowd-edited dealiebobs.
Well good luck with it :) 
I'll post it on here and reap the delicious /r/excel karma.
