How can I practice my Excel skills?
Try learning from: http://excelexposure.com/
Fake it til you make it, also known as google.
Play eve-online.
Be a regular in this sub. I can say it with personal experience that you will learn something new everyday here. 

In our normal work, we may not come across interesting problems to solve that often, but here you see new questions everyday. Try your hands at solving them, use Google if you need to. Read other's solutions and try to implement them to see how they work on your own dummy data. When it comes to Excel, like most things, practice is the key.
If you have extra time on your hands, change up a routine task that you have. Be a bit less efficient, using different formulas that you are used to. You might discover something that will help you in another assignment or in the future.

Or just youtube everything. Youtube is a wonderful place.

Edit for a bit more clarification: It is hard to learn excel without a practical use. When I was learning, I would incorporate it into other parts of my life. I used it to follow stocks, as a calendar... hell, I even copy/pasted a couple tables from the internet to cross-reference in order to find a new movie to watch on Netflix.
You need 2 mindset :

1- With every problem comes the question : Can this be done in Excel

2- Google is your friend, in the top 5 results you'll always find something usefull for your problem. 

This is how i improved my excel.... Also, puting your hands on some data is quite necessary in order to do interesting stuff.
Someone posted a site where could practice your shortcut keys. That was pretty awesome. Can someone help me remember what it was?
I've been practicing my Excel skills with two hobbies of mine: College Football and Fantasy Football. I have spent countless hours (more than I'd like to admit) just coming up with new ways to not just break down and analyze data but to also learn about formatting and aesthetics. 

For example, in my Fantasy Football spreadsheets I've been utilizing the statistics formulas, mostly NORMDIST, to find out probabilities of one team or another scoring X amount of points. It's almost complete nonsense because it centers around small sample sizes or highly deviant numbers but it's fun and I've learned plenty of new tricks just messing around.

For my College Football stuff, you can actually look [here](http://www.reddit.com/r/CFB/comments/2l9lxy/week_10_ap_poll_analysis/) for an example that I've posted over at /r/CFB, I've been looking at ways of breaking down available data. This one is more straight forward and simple but it's still helped my growth with the software.

I would say, as my best advice, to find something that has a LOT of available data (sports are great for this) and just start asking yourself questions about it. This leads you on a path to find new ways to represent or analyze the data. Interrogate that data to see what it's capable of telling you. Always try to use new or different formulas to keep challenging yourself. 

Good luck!
Start tracking your expenses and stuff about your life on excel. do it for a year and play with bringing the data together on excel. that's how i started and i'm the excel 'guru' at my firm.
I learned it up just by tracking my dreams. You can have it in google spreadsheets and just use a poll to insert data about your dream. [my dream stats](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1QRir4f_l729Vi8bMCqKv6pl3lOIoa-_o5570seCePak/edit) have common dream themes, how many I remember per night, most common day I dream, how often in general, how often I lucid dream, ratings, vividness, emotions, theres many different variaties of graphs, it took a lot of function learning to get it all working like I did

edit: sidenote: anyone have any ideas of more data I can get out of dreams besides sleep patterns? 
Hey /u/epicmindwarp, I'm glad you found my site useful enough to post a link!

Thanks :)
Will definitely give this a look, all help appreciated. Thanks /u/cobainbc15 for setting it up!
Instructions not clear, lost £10,000 in a freak Titan battle.
That's interesting, so you basically Excelled your life? I might have to start doing that with the mundane things. I mean, I have been thinking about putting my finances together in a proper budget for a while now, I guess that would be an awesome opportunity, especially if I do exactly what you suggest and use formulas which may not be as direct, but get me the exposure.
Go further. Number one should be: How can this be done in excel? 
I appreciate that, but unfortunately, I don't really have anything to work on, that's the big kicker of a problem! When a challenge presents itself it's easy enough to find an answer, but creating a hypothetical challenge is a tad harder.
This is a really good call as well, and I greatly appreciate it. I'm a heavy gamer getting into Counter Strike:GO more frequently, so I might see about creating a database of all the skins, items, etc. Lord knows, it has the indepth level of data I'm looking for.

Thank you for the great suggestions!
Thanks for creating such a great site! I send people there all the time. Have been working on something similar for a while now and hope to get in touch about collaborating once I've published a meaningful collection.
Here's a few i had to deal with recently.

- Try to do a vlookup with multiple criteria ( using index match and arrays )

- Have excel create an pdf and send it by email ( VBA )

- Have excel create 50 pdf invoice and send it by email 

- Much simpler, but converting PDFS to excel file and using them for their data ( as an auditor, this is done few times a week )

- Create a form, with a VBA button that push information into an excel database

- Have a form to ready that database and create an output from that ( email, pdf or excel file ) ( VBA stuff )

I'm out of ideas ... anyone else 
Glad you enjoyed it enough to share with others!

That's awesome to hear you're working on a similar site, and I'd be happy to discuss collaboration once you've got it going.  Keep at it!
