I made a spreadsheet modeling the guitar, scales, modes, and different tunings. The excel work was fun and I'd love to share it.
Mod Message: Flair changed to discussion.
This is very awesome. Thanks for sharing!

One thing: There's no drop-down for Lefty.
That's a great little file.  I'm just getting back into the guitar and this will be useful for learning where the notes are in the scales.  Thanks man!
I love this. Getting back into guitar after a few years off it. I'm self taught so I'm not great, but I like to play around.

* How would I go about getting it to show me the blues scale?
* Can I get it to just show me anything other than the modes?
I don't know much about guitar but this looks like some impressive work. How would a skilled guitar player use this? Just curious.
Great Job on this! I was about to upgrade an older file with VBA issues called xlguitar which was created about 15 years ago, Your version is much better.
Thanks man!
Thanks, I added it, but it's getting a huge overhaul to get Google docs working so it'll be a few hours before I sync changes.
/u/fugal, I'm so sorry, but it doesn't support any other scales right now.  I'm planning on adding the ability to define a custom interval pattern, but I'm not there yet.  I'll let you know when I get that feature in!
I'm planning on putting together a more complete explanation of how it all works, but for now think of it as a picture of a guitar lying on its back. 

The very first column is open strings, next column is 1st fret, then 2nd fret, etc.

You type the key in which you're playing into the "Key" area (should have a C in it by default).

If you changed the key, you should see that the fretboard changed. What it did is showed the notes which are in that key along with their scale degrees.  What are scale degrees?  Well, notice how someone can hum a song way higher or lower than normal and you still recognize it?  That's because we recognize the patterns between the degrees more than the actual note.  Those numbers label the repeating pitches which you recognize.  

If someone is jamming in the key you entered and you solo with the listed notes, you'll sound nice and harmonic!

The mode selection allows for you to change the style and character of the solos you play along with your buddy who's jamming in the key you entered.

There's 2 fretboards so that you can set up one for ionian (major - happy) or aolian (minor - sad) and the other one for a mode you like to switch back and forth to (modulation).
That'd be awesome. I thought I was missing something when I was looking through it before and trying to find other scales. 

It's a fantastic spreadsheet regardless. Cheers for the upload.
Great work. Love the way you color coded the intervals. 

Are you working on anything that might build out chords? This is super useful for soloing, but a bit confusing if someone wanted to play something like a C#m7. 
