What profession are you in and how are your Excel skills?
I work in legal.  
  
Excel skills: oh shit, I need to do that? TO GOOGLE!!!!!!!
Weightlifting coach, I use excel to write training programs that tell people what to do, when to do it, and how often to. 

I also wrote my girlfriend an excel sheet for her diet, which was the most challenging because she initially hesitated to tell me her bodyweight. So I designed everything in formulas based off of a single cell, so whatever weight she put in, whether it was 100lbs or 200lbs, it would count her daily calories as well as her daily protein, carb, and fat intake. 


my level is novice, which is part of the reason why I am here in this subreddit to learn more. 
Professional Pimp and Pleasure Provider Extraordinaire.  I use excel for advanced financial modeling and quantitative forecasting to determine the future possible outcome of the Global Pimpin' game.
Actuarial Analyst - I know enough of Excel to get me through, automations through VBA, and SQL for data manipulation.
Geomatics. But my excel knowledge came from working in the purchasing department at a local manufacturing plant. They did everything with excel and I was the guy that learn to connect it together.
Analyst - Biotechnology. B.S. Biochemistry

Really a one-man army for the company I work for. I do data analysis automation, spreadsheet validation (FDA stuff), data modelling/database admin, and BI (so nearly everything BUT financial stuff). Mostly production code.

Nearly 50% of the above is actually consulting work, because I am also responsible for bench-work in the laboratory which takes up a good portion of my days and compensation differs greatly for highly-technical systems automation/database admin than for lab monkeys.

Been described more than once here as an Excel God. VBA is my bitch ;) I also have general knowledge of python, Java, PowerShell, and the VB.NET framework although I very rarely use any of it for work.

EDIT: 100% self-taught
Financial Systems Dev / Architect (Hyperion). I am a 9 on a scale to 10. Formatting is my weakest area. 
Unemployed yo! But have a background in operations and economics. I'd say my excel skills are pretty good, I read an excel book with a distinction sort of like this (going from memory so I may be a bit off):

- Excel advanced user: understanding most functions and functionalities, macro recording

- Excel super-user: deeper understanding at excel functions and functionalities, basic VBA, go-to is formulas/non-VBA solution

- Excel Programmer: Basic understanding of excel, but great programming/VBA skillz, go-to is a vba solution

- Excel developer: deep understanding of Excel and VBA, applies both in the right situations. 

I say I'm a super-user on my CV because I don't feel my VBA/programming skills are really strong enough, and I have limited experience developing a complete/major product, instead of just smaller solutions, on the other hand I feel pretty confident that I could if I needed to.
I'm a Finance Manager in FP&A in a F500 company. I would say my excel skills are very good and I get a lot of questions from other people about excel, however I'm aware there is always more to learn, (and I love this sub because I learn new stuff all the time!)
I am a service technician. We repair a lot of equipment in-house. I manage the Excel document we use to create quotes.  It has VBA code to store all the input information into a database which is then used to track the equipment. 

I'd say I know quite a bit. At least I *think* I know quite a bit. I'm very comfortable with VBA though I've never used Excel for financial analysis. I learned Excel mostly at my last job (very similar line of work) doing numerous oddball projects.

I'm a sales assistant for a branding company. I'm always lauded for my Excel skillz by everyone, it's nice to hear, but honestly? All I know how to do is sums, some basic functions and how to make the final sheet look pretty. I'm thinking I'm a little bit above beginner?

I am a Revenue Analyst at a F100 company.  I would say that my excel skills are good, I have done some consulting work for other companies and I feel really confident in my abilities.  
BI Data Analyst for High Tech firm. 

Taught myself everything in Excel at a dull as fuck pharma job back in the day so now pretty damn swish and the go to for that sort of help (more a curse if anything.. ) 
Also taught myself (and currently doing) a lot more on the user experience and interaction side with regards to excel as it is usually ignored in how a person actually uses the spreadsheet and upgrading data anaylsis skills with R and associated packages. 

Do think that learning some design is useful though, it does make your work seem less technical as I hide all the formulas but im happier knowing that the end user is getting a lot more value from it with the key numbers highlighted etc kpis displayed prominently for the right person as that is sort of the function most of the time..
Analyst, energy commodities. Used to use excel a lot more when doing scientific research for the government (hydrology!), but now I'm trying to mostly use R and a SQL database for heavy calculating. I still use Excel for spreadsheets and to design models, though. 

I would probably say that I'm an intermediate user... I know shortcuts and formulae, and I've automated a couple of models down to taking a few keystrokes to trigger VBA, but that is a result of advanced Google-fu techniques more than a full understanding of how VBA works.
6 months on the job as a Data Analyst in government. Once upon a time I was a programmer. I've realized that Power Pivot and Power Query have the potential to automate all the shitty parts of my job, so I'm rapidly learning those - I'd like to see more discussion of PowerBI here but I'm not sure how to start it.
I'm an engineer working with vibration a lot.  I'm pretty good with Excel.  I know formulae and a fair amount of VBA.  However, all my VBA syntax is learned from googling.  I have decent programming experience (C++, MATLAB), so I usually just google syntax.  I wish I knew SQL and R.  They seem like big things.
[deleted]
Asset Management. 

I've written code that stupidly highly paid VBA consultants scratch their head over. All my VBA has been self taught over the last year, but my Excel has been strong for 7 years now. 
Employee Benefits. I think I am good enough to impress most of the employees. I'm good with formulas and pivot tables. I need to improve my VBA skills.
Business Intelligence Developer - I'd say baller to extra-baller on the excel/vba skills. I never really get to use it anymore though. Now I just watch other people try to use it and I get sad.
Senior FA for a manufacturing/project management company. I'm mediocre. I know more than most people in the office and less than the guys who designed it.
Accountant for a private health care company in Canada. My excel skills are intermediate and growing. I go a lot of data analysis and build a 40 page monthly reporting packaging to show the health and operations of our 10+ companies combined. I receive reports from different departments and in addition to my financial reports templates I built from scratch, I tie it all together. CFO is a stickler for minute detail so I'll I have it come back a few times before it's approved. It's fun and hopefully when I finished the school I'm doing on the side I change to focus my attention to learning how to use vba. 
Commercial real estate acquisitions and financial analyst. Can VBA with the help of google and time to tweak existent code. Otherwise have strong skills without VBA.
Work in advertising - throw some pivot tables down and people think it's the second coming...
Engineering manager. I think I'm OK with Excel. That likely means I suck.
I'm an accounting student. I took a class in excel and I'm generally quite computer savvy, but I've not had a lot of practice with the software so I'd say I'm a beginner. I'm even reading a book called Data Smart that uses spreadsheets to teach data science, but honestly it's so much easier to just write a Python or R script most of the time, that I really haven't been following the examples along that much.
l came into this post thinking I was pretty strong in Excel, but after reading these posts, I'm like some sort of intermediate Excel punk. Time for me to step my game up.
i work in behavioral health developing treatments for kids with disabilities and problem behaviors. i use excel mostly for data tracking and making graphs for rates of problem behaviors. 
My job now is Database Specialist, just graduated with a degree in Network Technology (Oracle, mySQL, cisco, linux, ms2008r2), 15 yrs ago was a bookkeeper, thought I had strong excel skills when I took my job. Not! .csv and text to excel for maco conversion to db import format is the bane of my work day. My database is only accessable through a shitty 1990's era client which depends heavily on Excel. I could rock this job if I had just limited access to run sql scripts/reports/imports. 
I analyze digital marketing data. I'm not an Excel developer, but what I do have are a very particular set of skills, skills I have acquired over a very long career.
Information management. I'm average for here but to them, I'm a god.
I'm a trainer (business improvement) for a large Aussie firm. My excel-fu is ok. My VBA is starting to make sense to other people!
Financial Analyst - FP&A. 
Business analyst at a boutique strategy consulting firm. I'm known as the Excel ninja.
My roles over the past 3 years in a major QSR company (you almost for sure ate at one of our restaurants):
- Compensation Analyst
- Senior Auditor
- Compensation Manager (oversaw several functions, so while comp was primary, this title is misleading)

Now I'm a Sr. Consultant specializing in HR (Comp, Benefits, Payroll, HRIS, etc)

I'd say I'm a 7/10. I have a lot of formulas memorized, novice at macros (I know how to write a few, although I cheat by recording then cleaning up the code after). I do a lot of database automation, so I'm always trying to learn more. Would love to learn more VBA.Oh, and 85% self taught, 15% asking/learning from others. Chandoo.org is your friend, as is google/bing (yes I use Bing, judge away)
Work in Finance and I'd like to think I'm a solid 7/10 compared to top tier talent. We recently got SharePoint and Excel 2013 so it's been a lot more PowerBI than regular Excel these days. 

If anyone has not checked out PowerPivot and PowerQuery I highly recommend you check out some youtube videos. The PowerBI suite has really revolutionized the way I work. 
IT Manager. I'd rate myself 7/10.
Digital Analyst for a social media analytics company. We do all of our reporting via Excel so we learn to squeeze as much out of it as we can. I feel competent but there is always more to learn.
I'm also a finance analyst at an F500.  My Excel skills I'd say are a 9/10 with moderate to advanced vba.  

How'd I learn it?  Google and youtube.  Oh and my first job required 15 minutes per day max after I figured out what a macro was so I basically got a year of free education for Excel/SAP.  
Team manager in a call center. Beginner excel skill and beginner vba. We've got a shit metric ton of reports and they were usually counted manually before I got the position. I swear go god my colleagues don't even know how to sum in excel... 
Agriculture.

I don't know VBA either (would like to learn), but I know the business end of a VLOOKUP, so I'm league's ahead of everyone else I know. 


I'm in project management and without detail, firmly state, everyone could learn more and most ppl could learn from other users.  If I just had someone 30 minutes at a time watching how I was doing things and coach me me through another level, I'd  be way beyond that worthless Intermediate class I took all so many years ago.
Accountant, I live and breath excel. 
Shipping and receiving department, I mostly use vlookup and similar functions to track down inventory discrepancies. All inventory has multiple unique ID's. Wish I had extra cause to learn more out of necessity.
Financial/Commercial Analyst - I live in excel. From stats analysis to forecasting to automated regular reports. I'm the "wizard" in any workplace, but totally self taught out of necessity.  Large workloads dont allow you to do things the slow way. 
[deleted]
I'm a trainee analyst at a brokering company. Joined straight after my A-Levels, so just over a year ago.

When I joined, I knew almost nothing about excel except how to use very basic mathematical operations and =SUM.

I would say that I'm intermediate with Excel with confidence in pivottables, array formulas and general problem solving using Excel. However, I'm currently trying to learn how to use VBA and Access/SQL to manage my data.

My role mainly consists of creating and managing dashboards with bits of one-off analysis here and there.

All of my computer skills are self-taught. Never really believed in studying for a computer-related degree/qualification because I generally believed it as something that can be done proactively and independently, which is true to some extent.
Just found this subreddit, hoping I can contribute where needed.
I'm an engineer (college degree) / programmer (self taught and now primary job focus) 
Fairly proficient with most aspects of Excel, but strongly believe is always using the right tool for the task.  Sometimes that's Excel, sometimes that's diving right into a relational DB. 
Video Games testing & weak! 
Trade Marketing

Excel level: Expert (basic VBA, anything else, no problem)

I'm a Business & Systems Consultant and I'm known as the excel guy in my office. In the past I've been hired into temporary roles specifically to provide consulting on spreadsheets.

Every time I come across a problem, I go to Google. I can't remember any occasion I've done something complex on excel without using Google. 

Google is life. Thank you, countless strangers who have written the code for my various solutions.

Oh and record macro. That shit is the tits. 
I was a Workforce Management Analyst at a Call Center for around 4 years, everything was done in Excel, scheduling, forecasting, planning, reporting, payroll etc. I would say my level is advanced. Just moved to USA and haven't been able to land a job yet though.
I'm a temp working as an administrative assistant at a commercial/industrial lighting plant that's being shut down because production is being moved out of country.

My Excel skills are pretty decent, but I don't really use Pivot Tables so I wouldn't call myself an expert.  I am quite handy with VBA though and write macros that have user interfaces built into spreadsheets that parse other spreadsheets and create reports with graphs and such.
Sales analyst. Mostly self taught (google). It's all about knowing (or figuring out) how to phrase a question and you can figure most stuff out.  Good at lookups, counts, sums, formatting, charting, pivots, text functions, Boolean logic. Not experienced with stat functions or financial functions. Don't know VBA. Want to learn SQL (have done some stuff online, think I could figure out most queries but no creation, delete or update). Out of 100+ at work I'm in top five. 
Seriously Google's the best.
I like building stuff that is based off of a limited number of cells and can be repeatable, fun stuff.
Yo, get busy pimpin' on da spreadsheetz, b!
[deleted]
Geomatics? Are you a GIS professional?
May I ask what resources you used is learning VBA? 
Sounds like an interesting job. I just left 10 years in science because funding woes, and now work in computer science. I'd love to get back to some scientific programming and automation.
Formatting is a headache and something that people who don't work with Excel care about too much.
As a revenue analyst do you focus strictly on revenue recognition or do you also look at costs related to your cost centers?
Are you combining R and Excel?
I wish I knew more about PowerBI, it's just a lot harder to find normal "problems" to use it with if you aren't dealing with it through work. 

I originally thought this meant "taught skills" but I think it would be more fun if you meant "thought skills"
I have never understood how to become one of these consultants, since they seem to get a mint for poorly optimised templates.
The sadness is real.  I was watching someone scroll down an Excel document with the mouse wheel.  When I told them Ctrl+Down would get them to the bottom, it was like Moses parting the Red Sea for them.

However, I try to remind myself that I too did not know that at some point. :)
Interesting,  would you say your peers share your ranking? I only ask because it sounds like we are at a similar level(I have memorised almost every non specialist formula, and can use them on the fly), except I can code raw in vba and I rank myself at around 5/10. 
It's in da game, playa!
VBA is much more difficult than a pivot table.
Yeah - it has gotten me the reputation as the "Excel guy" even though I work in a bank filled with considerably more qualified people. 
Not my company, but our parent company is. I'm in the insurance industry, I don't know if you would be interested in that beast.
Yep. I do a lot of data stuff.
Probably used ArcGIS and ArcMap.
Honestly, Google has been my greatest friend. Places like stackoverflow, the MSDN (this one is HUGE!!! for understanding the API -> specific classes, objects, methods, etc), and a handful of other sites have oodles of solutions to learn about. Usually I start to tackle a problem up to a point where I could use some guidance, and the above fills in the gaps.

I also own Power Programming with VBA by John Walkenbach. Definitely a great text about using VBA, although I use it more as a survey/reference than a place to learn (absolutely has some fantastic macros/themes).

My background in coding with other languages is also pretty clutch in a general best-practice/fundamentals kind of way. I can honestly say, with only a touch of chagrin, that VBA is probably my strongest language at this point. Especially since I have so much of the Excel API up in my noggin.  
I'm not /u/kingdomcome50 but I'm a Data Analyst and in a similar situation, 100% self taught "one man army", if you will... 

I learned by solving problems that people post here with VBA, regardless of if they wanted a VBA solution or not. Most of the time I did not post because people explicitly did not want VBA. It was for self gain. Best way to learn is by doing. 

VBA's actually really easy in my opinion, compared to say, SAS. 
There's so much on youtube it's insane. 
I learned long ago that if you can make data pretty, a whole lot of people don't actually give much thought to whether it's right. In the companies I've worked for, real analysts have competition from a lot of people who can make a pretty PowerPoint but don't understand much about what they're saying. Unfortunately, those are the guys who get the executives' attention. It teaches you to up your formatting game if you want to be heard.
Formatting is super important.  What is the point of all our work if no one can understand it because of poor formatting?


Preach
I mainly analyse revenue generated, but I also dabble in cost control.  
More I already know excel and learning R and further technologies that way (ie improving python, mapreduce, hadoop etc) is a way to further my learning. 

I generally try to use R at the moment to manipulate the data that goes into excel and clean it so to speak. In all honestly this could very easily be done in excel itself but I want to use the fact that I have access to lots of data in my job to practice if that makes sense. 
I've used it for non-work joining of tables. The sort of thing that normally I would do with VLOOKUP (INDEX & MATCH). You can do it with both relationships and flat tables in Power Pivot or Power Query has proper joins. That'll at least get you into the interfaces and looking around.
I'm the same as HotterRod (excep not in a government :) 
The thing with PowerPivot is that it "looks" like Excel and some of the funtions are sorta the same (but they're not) and so if you just try to do stuff you get frustrated.  After messing with it a few times I had to put a couple of days aside to go through some tutorials.

Tht being said, I'm finding PowerQuery to be even more useful than PowerPivot.
[deleted]
A lot of peers don't. HR is not the most tech savvy group, so it isn't like the competition is stiff, which has likely skewed perspective. VBA alone puts you ahead. Sorry about that.
Cool man. What kind of projects do you work on?
After playing with the automated spirograph example I threw the book down and couldn't quite grasp how I could feel so dumb with something I use every day

EDIT: regarding the Walkenbach book
It depends on your audience. The people I work with have masters degrees and 30+ years in the field I do analysis for. There's no format I could show them that would increase their understanding of the numbers in question. On the other hand though, I also provide charts and summaries for our portfolio companies that point to our conclusions more obviously. 
Print formatting, font formatting, and the like do not necessarily make work hard to understand.
How much data are you dealing with? I'm using Power Pivot in 32-bit Excel and it quickly starts to choke with a few hundred thousand rows. I've started using Power Query to preprocess it - I was wondering if I could use R, but apparently it's still does all its operations in memory so I was worried I'd run into the same ceiling.
I asked op due to them being in HR, ie hiring and firing. I rank most of the others who work 24/7 with excel around the 2-3/10 mark. 
It was more for the hiring portion of the hr role I was asking. Where would you say your peers rank you? 
A little bit if everything. I work on contract. So one contract might be mapping and another codeing.

I use excel most when data needs to be massaged into different formats or if I need to join tables in arcmap
I disagree, but maybe it is a matter of opinion 
I use Power Pivot with millions of rows - you're probably just being hamstrung by the specs of your computer.
I get asked a lot of questions and am generally seen as advanced, so I'd say they rate me 7-8.
64 or 32 bit Excel? 
gotta go 64.
Well yeah, duh. But it's not an option where I work.
I didn't think it was either but contacted our (internal)  software license desk and they made it available.  You can pick either version with the same license.  You should give it a try if you haven't.
