Free 10-week online course in VBA from Cal Poly Pomona
A great offering.  Thank you.
[deleted]
very nice, how will it work, ermm... look like? :) classic video lectures, ... ?
This is a most excellent offer. Thank you!

I would like to point out a point of confusion on your website. There is button with the label "Unenroll." I would think the default should be "Enroll."
First off, thanks for offering this, it's great.

Now to look the gift horse in the mouth:  I don't suppose there's CPE involved here?  I would assume not since you didn't mention it.

I know it's a hassle to get something "certified" as CPE, but it would probably help enrollment.  We who need CPE are always looking for good classes, free or not.  Might help you get to your 10k goal although it would definitely incur some additional cost for the U so I understand staying away from it.

Again, thanks for the opportunity!
Shoot! I just discovered this sub. I couldn't find your email on blackboard. Will this be offered again?
Is this going to happen again?
Thanks for this, enrolled :)
Signed up, week 1 in the books!
Dumb question...what is an online badge?
This looks great, thanks for sharing. 

Do you know if it is synchronous video? asynchronous (on-demand) video? reading and exercises? or some combination of the above?
This is awesome! Thanks!
I am a bit busy nowadays. Can I sign up for this course but start watching the lectures and doing the assignments in a few weeks later? Anyway, many thanks for the resource.
This is amazing
I have not only enrolled but shared this with friends.  This is a great and wonderful thing for me.  Thank you for offering this course.
Great offering, I just enrolled. Will I receive an email notification reminding me of when the course starts or something like that closer to the date?
This comes are a really great time in my school/career schedule. Thank you so much!
Just enrolled, thanks so much looking forward to this and if there is any useful reading material then please feel free to share it.
Do you offer any other free online programming courses? 
I think I've enrolled. Will there be any updates/reminders regarding the course closer to the date?
I'm definitely going to enroll just to help me brush up on some of the basics. Does anyone know of any other institutions that offer courses like this, say in python?
Will this focus on any version of Excel or will I have to go out and get the newest version? 
I'm in my last semester of undergraduate and am going on vacation at the end of May. Can I access work early? I would probably do a lot of work in a few sittings.
This is great! I am now enrolled. 
Very cool to see my alma mater expanding into online courses!  I don't use VB very often day to day in my current job, but I still have some VB knowledge floating around in my brain passed on from Prof Joe Berk.  Would be nice to get a refresher.

I'll pass it onto my colleagues and friends.

-CPP BSME, c/o 2010
hows does this course actually work, in terms of schedule? are the individual lessons something we have to be a part of in real time, or can we watch them any time after they are posted?

i am very interested in this!


I was really looking for something like this. 
Thank you very much this will help my graduate program and business life a lot!

You will probably have 4 Swedish MSc in Finance students joining! 
This is awesome. Just enrolled. I've recently started a new finance job that is heavily reliant on excel and wanted to get into VBA as I know it would be a huge advantage. 

Looking forward to it! 
Just wanted to pop back into this thread and thank Prof Nissenson for the work he is doing here.  I really hope it is a success in whatever ways are important for him and his department.  I have not taken many online classes and none of the Coursera offerings but I really like what they are doing here.

If anyone missed this and has any interest in VBA, I would keep an eye out for the next offering, if there is one!
I was hoping to take/ go through this course to get a better understanding of Excel VBA programming, but whenever I click on the link to access the course, on the Blackboard Learn website, it gives an error "The specified resource was not found, or you do not have permission to access it." I know it is a little late, but is there anyway to gain access this course?
Hi there. If i wanted to enroll in this course would I have to wait until next summer. Thanks! 
This is the second time we are offering the course. The first time was last spring and it went really well.
After the course you should have a good grasp of VBA fundamentals and should be in great shape to learn advanced VBA concepts on your own.
Also what will the exam be like? Will there be assignments along the way? 
Thanks for letting me know. I will tell tech support.
Good question. Learning the material and getting a personalized certificate of completion is free, but we are staying away from formalized certification processes for now. Administratively it is not an easy task to get everyone to agree to do something like that, especially at a state school. 

In the future we may go that direction. For now we are more concerned with getting practice running a huge course.
There will be 42 video lessons total, with each video typically lasting ~5-10 minutes and covering just one concept. For most videos, concepts are introduced using animated PowerPoint slides, followed by a simple worked example. You will never see my face in the videos.

Each week a new topic will be learned and students will complete the following six tasks:

1) Read the week’s learning objectives and watch a brief (~1 min) introduction video that  provides an overview of the topic.

2) Watch 3-7 short video tutorials that discuss concepts related to the week’s topic.  

3) Complete an ungraded "sanity-check quiz" for students to self-assess whether they understand the concepts discussed in the videos. Feedback will be provided if the student provides incorrect answers.

4) Complete an ungraded "pre-quiz" which asks students to predict the output from a VBA program.  Students can check their answer with Excel.

5) Complete a graded quiz that has similar content to the pre-quiz. 

6) Write VBA programs to solve 2-3 problems using concepts learned in the video tutorials. The problem statements will include hints to help beginner students and extra tasks for more advanced students. The programs can't be graded due to the difficulty in setting up an automated grading system, but solutions will be provided at the end of the week. Class discussion boards will allow participants to receive help with their programs (~10-15 undergraduate student assistant volunteers who know VBA well will be helping me and the assistant instructor, Dr. Todd Coburn).

Here are the list of weekly topics. We definitely will cover all the topics, but I may decide to move Weeks 6 and 7 before Sub Procedures.  

Week 1: Introduction to the Excel workbook environment

Week 2: Introduction to the VBA Environment

Week 3: Data types & built-in functions in VBA

Week 4: Modular programming I – Sub procedures 

Week 5: Modular programming II – Function procedures

Week 6: Selective execution – If structures and Select Case structures

Week 7: Repetitive execution – Loops

Week 8: UserForms

Week 9: Arrays

Week 10: Putting it all together (combining most of the concepts to develop interesting programs).

In order to get the certificate of completion, you have to get a passing grade in the course (based on quizzes and a final exam). But if you don't care about that then your idea is fine.
I sure hope so. :)
Thank you for sharing with your friends. 
Yes, I will send an email a few weeks before the course begins, followed by a new email every week. The email will be sent to the address you enrolled with.
There won't be any mandatory books for the course, but I will put on the syllabus that a good reference is John Walkenbach's "Excel 2013 Power Programming with VBA". I think this book is better for people who already have some experience in VBA since it is very thick an intimidating to the beginning.

http://www.amazon.com/Excel-2013-Power-Programming-VBA/dp/1118490398
This is the first course offered by my university. If it is successful, then we *may* develop more in the future. The problem is that is takes a lot of time to create the materials and set up the website. The videos alone took me many hundreds of hours to prep, record, edit, and caption... and this is with a full time job teaching. :)
Yes, you will receive a reminder email in mid-March, then emails every week.
Blackboard CourseSites (the platform I used last spring) used to have a course on that language, but I don't know if it is still functional.

I haven't looked at too many other institutions, but I think we are the only one offering VBA. This isn't surprising because VBA is not regarded as a good language for scientific computing, even though it is the most practical language for the average person to know. 
The videos use Excel 2007 on a PC, but you will be fine if you use the following versions:

PC: Excel 2007, 2010, 2013

Mac: Excel 2011 (I believe newer versions should be okay as well but I haven't tried them out. Can a Mac person let me know if newer versions of Excel for Mac support VBA programming.) Excel 2008 for Macs will not work.

Excel 2007 was chosen because we wanted to make the course as accessible as possible. People who still use 2007 may not have seen the new layout of 2010 and 2013, but those who use 2010 or 2013 likely used 2007 in the past and won't have a problem. We will be spending most of our time in the VBA editor which looks similar enough between versions to not cause confusion.
Sorry. To keep the class moving at a manageable pace, we will be sticking to the format discussed above. After you get back from vacation you will be able to access the material if you enroll by March 30th.
I see that instructor frequently in the halls. :)
You will get to work at your own pace during each week, but you must take the quiz by the end of the week in order to get credit for it. 

At the beginning of a week, all content for that module will be available and will remain available throughout the course. You also will have access to content one week ahead of time. For example, during Week 6 content for Weeks 1-7 will be available, but you cannot access Weeks 8-10 yet.

Typical workload for an average week:

~1 hour of videos

~1 hour of preparing for the graded quiz

~30 min max for the graded quiz

~3-6 hours for the hw. This step has the biggest uncertainty. It depends on the student.
Välkommen!
Pop back whenever you want to say something nice. :)
Are last spring's course materials archived by any chance?
For most quiz questions you will be shown code and have to predict the output. There will be some concept questions too.
Do you guys by any chance offer other type of excel classes? Not focused on VBA.
Yea, I didn't see any other offerings for programming through a Blackboard search. Regardless, I've had to use VBA in various applications and agree it is the most practical language for non-programmers.

I'm sort of a self taught (through trial and error) VBA user so I look forward to learning the basics in a sequential order and strengthening my foundation. Enrolled!
great! thanks! 
Yes, but they are only available to those who took the course last Spring. I plan on doing something similar with the course this Spring as well.
Unfortunately not. The first week will deal with the basics of Excel spreadsheets (e.g., formulas, simple charts, relative and absolute references) and the rest of the course will be focused on VBA. However, every week or two I will give tips on how to use interesting Excel worksheet functions like vlookup and countif.
Wow... there was a 400-450 person boost in enrollment overnight! 
Great! Thanks for the info.
I forgot to mention that the videos will be made available on our Department YouTube page after the course even if you don't take the course.
Awesome! More great info. Much appreciated --
