How long will it take to learn to create pivot tables and VLookup to complete variance analysis?
The nice thing is that vlookups are suppppper easy to master (index matches and offets are tougher) but youre going to find as you progress that it isn't necessarily what formula you can write at this moment, but how you set up a sheet that will make future formulas easier. at least that has been my experience

as far as pivot tables, you could learn the ins and outs faster than reading this message. just go to excel, create some fake data and play around with moving column headings, adding filters, changing "sums" to "counts", etc

all in all you can learn these concepts within a few hours. 
To master the skills and really be able to perform useful analysis it will take a few weeks at least. You can always do that on the job though, if there are no time constraints of course. In my experience, have confidence that you can do anything and when asked dodge it till you have a moment to research it. After a few months you will know more then 80% of the departments that don't care to learn.  Good luck!
It's funny that you mention these. My professor told my class we should know these two things. I had no idea what they even are. So... I'm a little behind.
Like 10 minutes?
Haha thanks, very reassuring.  :)

Can you recommend any sites i can learn from? 
Everybody learns differently, but if I were you I'd get a public dataset about some topic you're interested in and just play around with it: imagine you were given the assignment to "find something interesting".
I didn't know of any off hand but this should be pretty indepth:

http://howtovlookupinexcel.com/

http://www.timeatlas.com/excel-pivot-tables/ (this one looks pretty solid too) 

hope this helps man!
Check out excelisfun channel on youtube. That's how I learned both pivot tables and vlookup. His presentation is really clean and easy to follow.
That sounds like a good idea, but i don't know where to find those datasets. I googled "excel pivot table variance analysis public dataset"...not sure where to look :/
By "variance analysis" do you mean the difference between projected and actual costs, or variance between the costs of similar things produced using a standardized procedure?

What industry is the job in?
Census data, sports data, weather data, political finance data, public spending etc -- all super accessible datasets. Unfortunately I'm on mobile so can't link to anything specific, but I think you'll do best if you start broad, plus thats the fun stuff.

Its also going to go a long way if you're at least familiar with tools like Tableau, a lot of BI peeps in the retail/tech/marketing industry use that.

Not sure why you specifically called out variance analysis (industry specific?), but I'd make sure you're comfortable with good ole fashioned "analysis" too ;)
/r/datasets
it's in the financial services IT sector
Good stuff thanks !
So find a data set with *variance* and *analyze it*. Don't search for a data set where that's already been done for you. Duh.
