Are you guys aware of this program? ASAP Utilities - It has saved me approximately 14.2 hours in processing time.
Yeah I have this installed and paid to support the development. 

Its a handy tool for one-off fixes and you can save common patterns for cleaning consistently formatted data you import a lot. 

I tend to get a mix of formats and data quality and whilst ASAP is better than manual process I've got a couple of VBA processing routines that look through common patterns and issues and loop to clean and format. Kind of intelligently chaining together several saved patterns but only applying them when they match one or more error patterns. 

Horses for courses, I'd agree ASAP is a great tool, if you haven't tried it you should 
I've created many of these shortcuts myself, but I never went through the trouble of compiling everything nicely like that, with ribbon menus and dialog boxes, so I appreciate the effort they've put into this. Definitely an interesting tool, particularly if you often do a lot of data hauling/sanitizing in Excel.
Problem is it opens an annoying blank window for some Excel 2013 users.
Flair changed to discussion 
I installed the trial version thinking I would never actually pay for an excel add-in, but sure enough when the trial expired I whipped out my credit card and purchased the full version.  


I agree with /u/airstrike in that you can create a lot of the shortcuts and tools on your own, but the nice thing about ASAP is how it is all nicely built into the ribbon with out having to do all the customization yourself.


I probably only use 3 or 4 of the data sanitizing tools on a regular basis, but the time they save me makes the purchase price worth it.
How does this compare to KuTools?
Booo it doesn't work in 64 bit.
Did you ever find a solution to this? For me it only happens when combined with other add-ins, but it's super annoying
Very similar. The only thing that I use in KuTools now is the flat table conversion tool. I'm sure I've missed some tools in both systems but this has been my experience.
If you only knew how many phone calls I have gotten because Office x64 broke something again? I don't fix it I just uninstall x64 and isntall x86. I have not had any problems running x86 Office on X64 computers so far. 
Nope. Eventually I uninstalled it, I miss some features but much better this way,
