Here's an early preview of what's coming soon to Microsoft Power Map for Excel
This seems pretty cool.  If only I had a good reason to mess around with Power Map... 
Okay...I'm in.  I want.  MapPoint never quite gave me what I was looking for...seems like this is a nice improvement.
Interesting.. Do you provide any source databases with shapes? What formats for shapes are supported? Are there any overlays other than just color?
If its easy to use, im in. Never used something like this before but I would love to see what it can do. 

Tracking sales across states would be cool. 
What would thus be used for?
Didn't actually see excel...
cool, so it makes movies using google earth?
Well I saw about 1 sec of Europe 10 of Australia the rest was USA. 
I wonder if there is a little bias
We'll provide a lot more detail on the specific functionality in that video when the new Power Map features launch. You will be able to import your own shapes, and on top of them just as today you can plot bars and pies.  
Could be something as simple as voting results, although it'd be simpler to just have someone do an overlay.

The demo already showed some of its applications for geography based infographics. I can also see it used in retail.
Actually it's all Excel. That's a full screen data tour that plays in Excel.  
Nope, not Google Earth, it let's you plot data on top of maps, either Bing maps or your own custom maps, and you can save the result as an animated movie, just like the video linked in this post. More on our Twitter/Facebook feeds and here: http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/powerBI/power-map.aspx
Wonder why... I bet they tab summer numbers. In excel.
Don't forget Greenland :)   Usually this is dictated more by what datasets we can find than by any particular preference for location. It is true that it's often easier for us to find US datasets publicly available.  Have some good datasets we should plot, feel free to point us at them.  
that video showed nothing but animated maps. How is the consumer supposed to know anything about benefits of this.
This video showed off a very particular new feature under development. For more samples of Power Map generally, check out [Power Map Videos](http://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLwOguu_SuE1YLCIJJ251vw734apBDq7ET)
