Final call for a free 10-week online course in Excel VBA
I signed up but what if I don't actually complete the work or follow along with the course (say I get slammed at work)?  Will I be able to "catch up" or go back and review stuff when I have time?

Never mind, watched the intro video and it answered my questions.
Thanks for the reminder! Hopefully we'll have a userbase with much better VBA skills in 10 weeks :D

Also changed the flair to Advertisement. 
Thank you for this offer, looking forward to getting better at VBA.
Ok. Here we go.
So i have enrolled, and know i received a confirmation email, but now i cant find it! Can you PM me a link where i can use the login info i setup?
On it. Let's do this.
Awesome!
Taking this course for the second time actually. Believe the last one was around a year ago, but a new position at work is prime for some VBA efficiency I think. Thanks for offering! 
Thanks for the reminder.  I'm enrolled now.
Count me in!  I've been using excel more and more recently, and I'm really curious to get familiar with some additional functionality! 
enrolled  :) 
This looks great. Thank you!
Just snuck in there! Thank you for this opportunity!
I enrolled before going on vacation - I clearly remember the issues with the button - but it does not seem to be in my course catalog. Did I have to activate the course as it started?
The course will remain online for a few months after it ends in June. However, you must enroll by April 5 to have access to the course (I won't be adding additional people after that date).
Thanks. I am still getting used to posting on reddit.
Wooooooo.
So you don't remember your username and password? If so, you can just re-register with a new account.
I will be introducing some new content this time on built-in functions that can help with efficiency, mostly through readings (making videos takes a loooot of time). 
Just in time.
So you can't login to the course when going to this site?

https://openeducation.blackboard.com/mooc-catalog/courseDetails/view?course_id=_219_1
No worries at all! The flairs are specific to this subreddit and partially automated with the moderator bot Clippy, to help people mark their problems as solved/unsolved and give out token points and such, we just have a few extra options for non-problem posts as well, trying to keep things a bit tidy :) 
I am able to log in to my Blackboard-account, but when trying to click cpp.edu/ I get the following message: "The specified resource was not found, or you do not have permission to access it."
That is an adorable name for a moderator bot.
After clicking on the link I gave you, then logging in, you should see a grey button on the right side that says "go to course". You don't see this?
No, unfortunately not. I suspect that I haven't enrolled properly. If that is the case I'll just have to wait until you make the course again.
