How to drill an oil well in a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet simulator
I'm in the National Guard as a satellite guy and during annual training I made an Azimuth / Elevation tracker. The satellite we were using was old and drifted so far off where our cutsheet suggested it would be it was difficult to find the satellite if we got off the satellite and had to re-access it at a later time.  This tracker let us know, based on time of day we were trying to access it, where we could find it.

Seeing the figure 8 was really neat.  It required manual entry of the Az/El every 30 minutes but after doing that for 24 hours we had a solid idea where it was!

Then we stopped using that satellite.

Now they are taking out satellite dish away.

Now I'll have to cross train :(
wow that's great ...no personal use but impressive :)


That's strange but cool, and think would make a good post in /r/oil
That's awesome! Not at the point where I can build something that unique yet. Glad you learned something along the way as well!

My story:
A few years I was teaching myself how to use VBA/Macros and, like many people here, need real life work examples to give me the motivation to learn it. I worked in an office that did a lot of things manually (it drove me crazy, hence my desire to learn VBA) and the general excel knowledge was limited. We had a very repetitive task involved taking one line item (of a budget) and breaking it out into up to 20 different line items (with weightings based on the different possible combinations of up to 20 line items. I couldn't believe it when they told me they manually wrote out each line item and then (literally using a calculator) would calculate the breakouts.

So in short, I wrote a macro that, with a UserForm+ Checkboxes, let you select the markets you wanted the line item broken out for, and then it would re-weight and create the appropriate amount of line items for you. Since the team had never even heard of VBA before this, they were all amazed! I felt like a king and I learned how to actually write (versus record) something in VBA in the process!

Cool! Its amazing how Excel can solve headaches at the job if you know what you're doing.  That's awesome
Never even thought about the subreddit /r/oil will post there now!  Thanks.
Saving the company time thus saving the company money makes you look like a stud!  
I also agree that its tough to sit down and try and learn VBA without a real world problem to solve.  Hence when I see an opportunity to challenge myself and improve the task/job/procedure/etc. I jump on it to learn more and more!  

Glad to hear your story.
Yeah...thanks for posting this when I get home i'll putz around with it and see how you got it to work.

VBA is able to solve so many specific problems in my civilian job, too.  Unfortunately only 2 people in my unit know how to write/edit VBA so there is justifiable fear or relying on it too much.

If our unit got support from systems we wouldn't have to write our own stuff!!
Assuming "systems" is like your IT(ish) department, getting them to build something with a specialized data set/knowledge is next to impossible.  From my experience , that's were the extra skill set in VBA makes people like us valuable to an organization.
This has been my experience as well.  If you go through IT, by the time you get approved a resource you probably don't need to do what you planned to do, or the specs have changed so much, it is really a different project.
