5 Easy Steps on How To Make an Excel Dashboard - A Tutorial
Link is ~~broked~~ fixed, thanks!

This looks wonderful but I'm wondering if there are more detailed instructions for someone (like me) who is decent with excel but by no stretch am I a power user..
Stream of consciousness-

"What is a braided gar? Some type of fish?"

"Oh, I'm retarded"

Great suggestions on table format for your data and for dynamic ranges. 

I personally use sliders on my dashboard, what do you suggest?

Last, if you are really concerned about keeping people from the calculations page, I would recommend Protecting the Sheet instead of just hiding it. Go to tools, permissions, choose protect sheet, and set a password or however you want to do it. 
Step 6. That was fun. Now it's time to learn PowerPivot.
As a good analyst, I've always hated the term 'dashboard'.
You should be good to go now! Thanks for the heads up.
I understand. The majority of the steps here outlined are kind of showing you the route and way to put together the dashboard.  If you are looking for some the more detailed concepts I always suggest Chandoo's website as he's done a great job putting together some resources. This should be a good start for you:

http://chandoo.org/wp/excel-dashboards/

Great suggestion on protecting the sheet with a password.  

I use sliders on occasion.  Right now my favorite dynamic controls have been drop downs (to provide a choice of a record like salesman for example) and this allows users to see data only for what their requirement is.  Option buttons have also been a favorite of mine as of recently.  This can allow the user to control number formatting or control your calculations on the calculations tab.

http://www.bradedgar.com/effortlessly-use-excel-option-button-keep-finance-operation-executives-happy-time/

http://www.bradedgar.com/how-option-buttons-can-be-used-to-control-your-dashboard-number-formatting/

And I think the final one that I've been really enjoy in terms of dashboard controls lately is the scroll bar for displaying large lists of records.

Thanks for your thoughts!


