Tech support uses /r/excel
> So, they won't listen to me on the phone, but they'll listen to a complete stranger off of the internet...

a stranger with 293 Clippy points!
Ok, we need a /bestof in the wiki or something. 
This is why no one trusts their company's IT department. These are the same people who command Excel through admin accounts to throw twelve different warning messages at you whenever you load a workbook from a network drive or a digitally-signed email, or heaven forbid have a macro in it.
 
And don't even think about calling a new Outlook email from Excel without disabling a bunch of addins. Thanks, IT. We're real secure here.
I works in corporate IT Helpdesks for a few years and can vouch that Google and Newsgroups were often sources for many a resolution to problems we couldn't figure out (probably more than I should admit).  
That being said, it was practically rule #1 that when you rollout an update and something broke, the first thing you did was remove the update to see if that provided a fix. About 75% of the time it did.
... wow. That is kinda hilarious. And actually bad. Good lord.
Had that happen... deleting the.... are they exd files cleared it up.

Automation Error was the BANE of my existence for a bit there.
Today, I was thinking about submitting a new text post suggesting some of us start a remote constancy business. In the near future, I most likely will have a good business model. Keep this post in mind (:
Next time you have an issue let us know what it is.  When they post about it we'll just say give /u/epicmindwarp a 30% raise and i'm sure the problem will be fixed.
> Well, I mod /r/excel and I spotted the post. I just re-iterated what I said (without telling them it was me) and they proceeded to uninstall the updates the next day!

Best story ever. 
This is great. I read here every day so that I can be better at what I do and I think this is a hoot. :) 
Obviously /u/epicmindwarp needs to mention his Clippy points when talking to IT!
How do I get that cool green glow around my name too!?!?
There is a difference between being secure due to plug in exploits or pass-the-hash type of attacks and having incompetent IT Support staff. 
Same issue here. Deleting the exd files from temp fixed it. Just added it to our global login script to patch for everyone
I've always wanted to put my Clippy Points on a resume. Or at least that I'm a mod, but I have no idea how employers would take that.
'distinguish' 
If I saw a resume that stated you were a moderator or important contributor to an Excel forum with a 23.000 user base. That would significantly increase your odds of getting an interview and a job.

Put it on your resume.
