What are good resources to practicing Excel for business or financial analyst positions?
I was hired (7 years ago now) as an analyst for one of the 6 "big" automotive companies purely on power-reading Walkenbach's Excel Bible book in one long, Redbull-fueled weekend. I recommend it if you have the patience for the huge tome. 
http://www.modeloff.com/questions/

Past questions on the Annual "Financial Modelling" competition.
Every company is different, so if you do practice, do so for your own edification and don't expect to be an expert on day 1. A few things to practice with (using sample data from Microsoft, gov't websites, school samples, etc):

1.) Pivot Tables
2.) Importing data using Text-to-Columns
3.) Basic graphs
4.) Vlookup and Index/Match

A good employer will understand that you'll need some training on their systems, needs, etc. The above will allow you to hit the ground running. 
I usually suggest using your own finances, as it brings relevance and real life situations into play.  Build a spreadsheet, track what you are spending each month. Use a pivot to then categorise your spends -food, fuel, electric etc. Calculate what you spend on average and create a yearly budget from there. Maybe use graphs to show things, like a pie chart of where your expenditures are each month.  If you have a mortgage, use the spreadsheet to work out what you pay off each month, what portion of the house you own etc. Or if you've student loans, you can model on those too.  The nice thing about doing this with your own money is that it becomes personal, you also get insights into your finances so it's a win win. 
YouTube's Excelisfun. Thousands of 20-30 minute Excel tutorials. 
Excel Exposure over on the sidebar is really good.

Just curious, what software did you learn with your Econ degree?  I graduated Econ about ten years ago, and at the time the only excel that came in that training was basics up to nested ifs.  I also used Eviews in a class... Not sure if you learned with that or minitab, but they are pretty close
http://www.reddit.com/r/finance/comments/2znreq/a_guide_to_excel_for_finance/
You can find [this](http://excelexposure.com) on University of Reddit. It´s a really great course for beginners to intermediate users of excel and it will get you going!
Http://www.Chandoo.org is a great resource
asimplemodel.com 

More focus on how to build financial models than the "excel" stuff though! Could be helpful!
I'm in the same spot. Any resources you learned about outside of this thread?
Walkenbach is a pretty good Excel guru. His VBA beginners book gave me the basics to write my own macros in my current job and inspired me to look into SQL as well.
Fuck, never knew this existed, looks fantastic, thanks.
I work as an analyst for a small tshirt company and graduated with a degree in economics in 2013.  I knew excel but a few weeks into my job I was 100x better than before I started.

This person is right about some of the things that would be good to know.  The main thing I would say is that you are comfortable with excel in general and can learn and pick up things quickly either by whoever is training you or through google.  Unless you are already an expert in excel no online class is going to be as nearly as helpful as once you get a job and are using it hours on end every day.
I think this is a great answer. You can download your transactions directly from your banks website in .xls or .csv usually. 

I can't praise the guy behind Excel Is Fun enough. I went from intermediate to advanced level in a few weeks just by watching his playlist named Excel 2013 Highlights. I don't think there's a better resource to learn Excel. 
I mostly used Stata. I'd occasionally use Excel but it was pretty basic functions. 
I've found the most success so far by going through each section of the [Excel Exposure](http://excelexposure.com/lesson-guide/) lesson guide. I then try to google practice problems for the skills that I want to improve on. 
I second this. When I first started my current job (senior analyst) 3 years ago, I had barely learned how to use the advanced filter, let alone pivot tables. I learned all the skills that are second nature to me now on the job.

I would also add that understanding your business, its performance drivers, and key trends, are very important. Often you learn a new excel function because you know what you are analysing, and I find this the better way around than, say, knowing a lot of Excel tricks first and trying to use as many of them as possible to impress people even though they might be an overkill or not the best analysis technique you could use for the issue at hand.
Mike Girvin. Highline College.  He's on LinkedIn. 
