How many Excel Power-Users are there in the wild?
And immediately everyone here asks "What's a power user?"
 
Which kinda sucks, because that can be subjective. I haven't had a job yet that required a lot of index/match combos, or Concatenate functions, or offsets. I still haven't used the slicer. On the other hand, I do primarily use the keyboard as much as possible. I've learned a lot of VBA in the past few months, and I definitely silently judge my coworkers' workbooks.
 
So I guess I'm not one, although a situation requiring me to be one could be interesting.
Statistics show that the ratio of Excel Power-Users to civilians is 1:423,673.
5?
I sell two Excel add-ins and have a decent-sized customer base. One of the products kind of bastardizes Excel's drawing tools, so I get a lot of customers who love using Excel for everything - i.e., my customers probably aren't typical Excel users. That said, I come across a lot of power users - especially folks in engineering, accounting, and finance. The core functionality of Excel hasn't changed much in 20 years, giving a lot of people time to master it.
We're talking about excel power users and what constitutes a power user, but I haven't seen anyone mention power query, or especially powerpivot. That's some next level shit that has opened some big doors for me at work. 
I see 4 types of Excel users:

1) Excel nothing

2) Excel basic - this person can do a vlookup, pivot tables, and can reasonably use and record macros. Generally speaking they can put together a functional workbook to solve any relatively small problem. 

3) Excel master - this person can solve any problem in Excel.  They either know how to use a function or can learn in just a few seconds. They build excellent models. They write VBA without difficulty.  

4) Excel guru - this person isn't even interested in solving the problem because it is so trivial. They build amazing models in minutes and design enterprise level software in an hour or so (it will still take days to build). They have mastered all aspects of VBA. Their only interest is to solve problems with maximum efficiency.
I guess I'm a power user? I have written applications in VBA and make large models with Excel?
I just taught myself index/match on a whim because I was sick of reading about it and not knowing what the fuss was about. My conclusion is, I'm probably going to keep using vlookup most of the time, because it's what I'm used to, fewer keystrokes, and easier for other people who use my workbooks to understand. 
Not to be that guy, but concatenate is beginner stuff and index/match isn't much further on. Slicer you can use with your eyes closed. 

VBA is definitely power user stuff though. 
What is your job title? 
Use the concatenate function all the time.  If you use excel as a text editor, its really useful.  

> I definitely silently judge my coworkers' workbooks.

I'm pretty sure you've just identified what defines a "power user"!
I think Rob Collie defines an Excel power user as someone who can easily pull together data with VLOOKUPs then create a pivot table off of it. 

He says maybe 10% of all Excel users can do this. I'd say closer to 5%.
> 1:423,673

I'm not sure that's entirely accurate - at last count there were around 15,000 power users in the world.
Hell yeah for the Power BI mention. Total game changer if you can get co-workers on board with it.
I have had so many bad experiances from pivots that i avoid them like the plauge. However I haven't heard of power pivot, could you give me a summary?
Wow...I'm nothing
I'd suggest something between basic and master. I'm hot with functions, but weak with VBA (but can google my way through most VBA needs).
I feel like you may be missing at least a couple of steps between Nothing and Basic.

Including probably the vast majority of Excel users worldwide.
The interesting thing about excel mastery is that the best demure about their skills.  We have at least a dozen regulars here that are exceptionally skilled.
at least were I work and in college there is a large gap between excel nothing and excel basic,
I agree pivot tables could be classed basic, but macros and vlookup are not excel basic skills believe me.

vlookup and recording macros belong in an excel intermediate division.
Not sure why this was downvoted...
I keep hearing this. What do people mean by models in excel?
Same - have to keep in mind that someone has to maintain/understand your workbooks when you move on to other roles/companies. That's the only thing that keeps me using vlookup over index match - in a pinch it's very easy to figure out exactly what the vlookup is doing. 
That's kinda my point. Some folks can go years without ever getting into that stuff, just solely depending on what their job requires, but still be very adept at a wide variety of Excel's abilities.
 
In fact, depending on who you talk to, some people consider the use of certain formulas or features to be a sign of a poorly-managed workbook.
[deleted]
I'd argue using the slicer to its potential is a power user attribute since it can do really cool stuff in certain industries (retail for example), but yes, I'd define a power user as someone who uses VBA frequently I guess
Yes! Everything on this thread I can do. Does that make me a power user? I would say no. However, it would be nice to have some sort of standard.
On my paycheck it says "Senior Consultant," but at the moment I'd say it mostly could be "data analyst" since that's what I've been doing the most the past 4 months. I'm an MBA student at night too, trying to get into some Excel-related financial jobs, maybe setting up models some day.
Vlookups and pivot tables make power users? That's a low bar. 
I don't have that many fingers
I'm not sure how one defines "power user" so precisely.
I can't imagine PTSD caused by pivot tables (because they're so damn useful).

[This series of videos on YouTube by ExcelIsFun is really great and will show you a lot of cool stuff powerpivot can do.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yjASjwJCIxA)
> Including probably the vast majority of Excel users worldwide.

Who would technically be "basic" users if you remove vlookup and recording macros from the definition.
I am having to think about this as I have never had to explain this before...

A model is a worbook that can work out a lot of stuff based on the info that is plugged into it. For example in my prvious job I workd for a contact centre. I had models that would allow you to plug in different values for performance and it would figure out the likely scores for the KPI's. I also had one that if you plugged in the advisor download from the system you could see each advisors stats, graph teams and show rankings.


The flip side is if you feel the company is in a bind/going through tough times, use IndexMatch for job security. 
Fifteen years ago html was sorcery to ordinary people. It didn't mean that anyone with a GeoCities page was a web development expert. 

As a group of people who are well versed at excel, we should be able to recognize that the basics don't make you an expert just because they impress people who have no knowledge. 
I think you vastly overestimate the ability/knowledge of the majority of Excel users.

Excel is widely, widely used in business by people who have *very* little interaction with it beyond plugging in numbers to get a nicely formatted table. It is no longer an application for people who specifically need it, it's a general tool for anyone who needs to send numbers to someone else. They understand less about it than they do about Word, and nobody knows how to use Word. Their Excel knowledge extends to how to change font sizes/colors, background colors, and borders. If you're lucky they'll be able to Save As in a location they can actually find again later.

The upper echelons of these general users know how to input formulas using basic mathematical operators (usually to calculate a percentage), and generate basic charts (though they'll almost invariably use an unsuitable type -- e.g. line graphs for discrete data -- because they're not aware of the data customs). 

A *really* advanced general user may know how to use a function, such as SUM! (... although they probably only entered it by hitting the Sum button on the Home ribbon, because who can remember that complex syntax??) 

And you can identify an expert general user by their knowledge of COUNT. These are the people everyone else goes to for Excel help, or when their Windows desktop background somehow gets changed from the family photo at Thanksgiving in Milwaukee last year.

If you mentioned VLOOKUP or pivot tables to general Excel users -- of whom there are *millions*, in all areas of business -- you'll likely get a glazed look and maybe a little drool from the corner of their mouth.

^^^.

There's a lady who works in my office.

She's in her 50s, she's as sweet as anything, and she's definitely not stupid. She uses her mouse backwards. I mean, she holds it with her fingertips, the buttons toward her palm, the back of the mouse aiming forward. She pulls the mouse *toward* her to move the pointer *up* the screen. Left and right mouse movements are also inverted relative to pointer movement. This is how she works on the computer.

She is an Excel user. 

She plugs numbers into spreadsheets. She emails reports.

This is the level of competence we're potentially dealing with when we talk about general Excel users in the modern work environment. Everyone has it on their computer. *Everyone*. Even the people who hold their mouse backwards. So yes... yes, the bar is low.



> I can't imagine PTSD caused by pivot tables 

The problems came when I inherited a number of sheets (from a user who knew enough to get himself in trouble) which were nested pivots combined with VBA. It was a nightmare. There were times when things broke for no god damn reason and trying to unravel the logic was a fools errand. The books were torched and rebuilt using tables and formulas.
Nobody ever said "we can't afford to keep him, but his spreadsheets take an extra few seconds to figure out - I don't see how we have a choice!" 
Have you asked her why she holds the mouse that way?  Surely she's aware (and if not, I assume you informed her).
I'm aware of the large majority who don't make it past putting borders on tables, my point is the next step up from there (vlookups and pivot tables, though I might put vlookups a tiny bit higher as lately everyone at first level of management and above seems to know how to use a pivot table) is not power user. 

There's the level of no knowledge, there's basic knowledge, there's intermediate knowledge, there's advanced knowledge, then there's power user, then there's MVP. 

Power user to me is someone who is fully fluent in Excel, someone who has very few questions and pushes excel to it's correct limits (aka knows when to work with access databases or similar instead of having stupidly large data sheets). 

Vlookups and pivot tables are not one step below MVP, they're barely intermediate. 


Edit: put it another way - the vast majority of people would have trouble running a mile, but running a 5k doesn't make me a high skilled athlete. 
I think that part is an illustrative exaggeration. For her to learn to use a computer (never mind excel) someone would have shown her how to use it, and you'd have to believe they taught her to do the opposite of what was natural, and for nobody she worked with since to have pointed out the correct way. 
> Vlookups and pivot tables are not one step below MVP, they're barely intermediate.

Oh I agree. My post wasn't entirely serious.

If you're looking at the range of skill levels with Excel, Vlookup and pivot tables would be lucky to be pegged at being 5% of the way up the knowledge scale. A user at the Vlookup/pivot table level still has 95% of Excel left to learn (arguably much more).

But if you're looking at actual worldwide usage scenarios, knowledge of Vlookup and pivot tables put someone in a very small minority, probably top 5-10% as /u/team_pizza mentioned. That is, 90% of the rest of the Excel-using world doesn't know how to use Vlookups or pivot tables.

It's not that Vlookup is a particularly advanced talent in the grand scheme of things; it's just advanced compared to the vast majority of Excel users. That 90% consider the people who *can* manage Vlookups/pivottables to be borderline power users. It's all in the perception. Hence you're going to get a mixed bag of responses in this sub because everyone has different definitions of what qualifies as a "power user". (Although this sub obviously has a bias toward the more knowledgeable Excel users; it's going to set the bar higher than the rest of the world does.)

