What sort of jobs would I get with Excel?
You need a lot more than basic if that is your only skill set. Not to sound mean, but your question is extremely vague, instead of "what kind of job can I get using X skill" you are probably better off finding a job you WANT to get then learning the skills to achieve it.


But to answer your question, using Excel you could be an analyst or accountant of some time. I work as a sales analyst but you need more than just "Basic Excel"


Some key skills/functions to learn:


-SUM IF function

- IF functions (especially IF IS NA)

- VLOOKUP (HUGE)

- Pivot Tables

- Conditional Formatting

- Referencing other sheets or Excel files

- Freeze Panes

- Filtering/Sorting

- Using "Split" view

- Using different formats (ie converting data to a number when it starts as text)


Non Excel Skills that are related:

-SQL (to pull the data for excel)

-Access/Database (to manage your data)


If you want to go the accounting route learning Quick Books would be a better skill


Easiest jobs to get:

-Data entry drone

-Accounts Payable


Eventually you can work in online marketing crunching the data, work in forecasting, buying for retail stores, writing reports
If you're still in school now, load up on statistics courses.  Not only will these help you conduct sound analyses with research studies in Psychology, but will also give you a stronger foundation of how to visualize and manipulate data sets with either SPSS/SAS (University) or Excel.

Excel knowledge is unfortunately one of those metrics that usually just gets passed off on resumes.  You can't gauge someone's expertise with excel based on a bullet item or one-line description that says you know how to use it.  The official Excel certifications you can take will typically add 1-3K onto a job offer if you have them.

Having experience using statistical analysis software will help you a lot more than having a strong grasp of only excel.  If a company sees that you are comfortable with adapting to different environments to perform analysis, they'll be more apt to offer you a job, since this can highlight being a flexible learner.
With only basic Excel knowledge, I wouldn't think it would get you into an entirely different career path than your psych degree would allow.  Even without Excel knowledge, you may be able to get an entry level bookkeeping job if they are not looking for someone with past accounting experience.  I know a few people with random degrees that worked their way into finance/accounting by starting out in Accounts Payable/Receivable and working their way up; there is always an opportunity with a bachelors degree of any type, just don't expect to advance as quickly and you should be fine.  Good luck!
I graduated with a BA in Pyschology and now work as a finance analyst/database admin for a sports arena.  Advanced Excel knowledge has been a huge cornerstone in my job, but it was the ability to build and maintain a functioning Access database that got my foot in the door.
You may want to expand your working knowledge of excel to at least include pivot tables. You want to acquaint yourself with everything data manipulation and reporting. And like /u/xxx_xxx_xxx_xxx_xxx_ said, you may get a very entry level job that may not necessarily require industry experience, but excel alone could get you a jr bookkeeping or data entry job.

Just keep learning.
There was another post a few days ago asking what jobs people had that were subscribed to this sub. It's worth a good look.  
  
Also, personal opinion with psychology aka any liberal arts degree and excel, STATISTICS. The ability to perform survey and calculate with regression analysis is a great skill. In the private sector this skill is often used with Lean or Six Sigma process consulting methodologies. 
Dude, dude, dude, dude, you be careful, you'll turn into me. BS in psych, mad excel skills (20 yrs this year). My advice: STAY IN SCHOOL and get that masters degree or PhD. The ONLY jobs you're going to find with a BS in psych are drug treatment centers for minimum wageish money, and you don't even need the degree for that. I so wish I had gotten an advanced degree. That said, I'd have been shit counseling someone at that point in my life, before I'd been out in the real world working... but at this point, going back to school seems both cost and time prohibitive.

That said, psychology has helped me in a lot of ways... understanding what motivates people and how to work with people helps in business (and parenting, too, by the way. Understanding conditioning is key to most human behavior).

As for actual jobs, there are various analyst-type jobs (business analyst, data analyst, etc.) that use Excel, but you are going to have to have better than just basic skills (study formulas, pivot tables, etc. and even then you need a reason to use it to really learn it). I have had to work my way into the analyst-type position here (it has another funky made-up title, but that is what it is), having originally started with admin assistant, and web-programming jobs and sort of migrated into a more data-oriented job where I get to use a lot of Excel.

Someone else said concentrate on databases, and I think that is good advice. Excel is great, but knowing how to work with databases is key - that's where the data will come from that you work with in Excel.
Excel skills won't get you a good job alone. Proper Excel skills will help you do your job better after you have it. I don't know of anyone that would hire someone just because they say they're good with Excel. I could be wrong, depending on location, but I don't think I am.

On the other hand, I work with a Psychologist who makes over 400/hr (minimal experience and excel skills) working in an office (not full time, usually, but much more than "live-able" amounts of hours). His rate was determined by that degree. I'd say it's valuable. Though, the other doctors make fun of him for said degree.
Excel is just a big calculator. Even if you know what all the buttons do, you still need ability in statistics / finance / engineering / administration in order to be proficient at solving statistics / finance / engineering / administration problems with Excel.
It all depends on how good you are - but if you're very good, you could work for hedge funds doing automation and data crunching.  
Corporate sales. It's easy to get an entry level Telemarketing gig (pick a reputable company, business to business sales of a high quality and as valuable and required product as possible).

Learn what you sell, use your excel skills to help your superiours make the organisation more effective and soon enough you'll graduate up to account management, key account management or just management.

It's not for everyone but you can make 100k USD a year (probably not starting out but it isn't impossible) and nobody will give a shit what degrees you have. We will however give a shit about your excel magic and being able to apply your psychological know how to closing deals however.

Be very careful though, for every legitimate and profesionally ran TM center there's twenty boiler room like operations.

Join a brand name, not a re-seller. I cannot emphasize this enough. At the interview be honest, tell them your skills. Admit that you lack sales experience but point out that you're looking to work hard and learn. The threshold for getting a try is low, we fully expect to churn ten failures for every success story.

Edit: As you have a degree in psychology, consider a company that sells a high quality product to the medical sector, that bachelor will suddenly be a whole lot more valuable.
If you follow what /u/jesterx7769 said, it also will open up doors in digital advertising. All the big agencies (Ogilvy, etc.) have a lot of jobs where all you do is basically live in Excel - Media Planners / Buyers, Ad Traffickers, etc. 
Excel skills will make you better able to perform in just about any white collar position, so it is definitely worthwhile to spend time learning it. However, Excel proficiency *alone* is almost never enough to get you a job because it's just so common that it's almost expected. 

The story is a little different if you're an Excel god (which takes thousands of hours to achieve), but even then you'd usually need to pair it with some other skillset to get a job out of it. For example, business analysts often rely heavily on high-level Excel skills, but they'd be totally useless without also knowing how to go about analyzing a business.

Generally speaking, it's important to keep in mind that Excel is just a tool. It's good to know how to use it, but you're much more valuable once you also know what to do with it.
That's like asking "what sort of jobs would I get with a hammer?"

Excel is really just a tool that people use to do OTHER stuff. 
Why do people put value into VLOOKUP? It's the worst function I think Excel offers. Index Matching is way more powerful. Working in reporting for over 5 years - 40 hours a week - I use it maybe once a year to show new employees why it's awful.
I really like ISBLANK in order to make my referencing spreadsheets stay clean.

I wrap a ton of other formulas within that so I don't get a page filled with annoying marks for the empty cells.
I'm doing AP right now and I use Excel VBA all the time...
> Easiest jobs to get:

You forgot 

-Accounts Receivable 
> "BS in psych, mad excel skills (20 yrs this year). STAY IN SCHOOL and get that masters degree or PhD. The ONLY jobs you're going to find with a BS in psych are drug treatment centers for minimum wageish money, and you don't even need the degree for that. I so wish I had gotten an advanced degree."

I spent 7 years in undergrad(!) to get a BA in philosophy, finished with a mediocre GPA during the worst part of the 2008 recession, and am making nearly six figures as a database admin/data analyst just a few years later (zero nepotism involved). I picked up *all* of the skills involved with my job after graduating, and learning Excel was what got me started on this path. 

Luck has played a big part in determining my career trajectory so far, but on-the-job learning and various free/cheap online training sites have had a bigger impact than anything I did in the first quarter-century of my life. I know a lot of that stuff didn't exist 20 years ago, but OP has options. I don't know what your situation is, but you've got options now too.
Reminds me of Faiser :) 
+1 for Index Match. I was an excel noob when I started my job 3 months ago. My boss taught me Vlookup. I used it for about 2 weeks until I did my research and found Index Match. I will never go back to Vlookup again.
Yeah I do have options. I am looking, but in general like my situation. I just wound up a little less lucky than you. And I do kind of wish sometimes that I was practicing psychology. I end up doing it for free (people know I am a good listener)! I do think I could have gotten farther with the analyst thing if I were more willing to job hop, or if I were male or not a mom (I do think this has played into my situation at times - not getting promotions, etc.).

My whole point is that he's not going to just jump into a career with what he's got. You and I have both built it over the last 20 years. Yeah, he can get there from here, but he's got a long way to go... and who knows what it's going to be like 20 years down the road? Just saying that if he does have that option, an advanced degree is a good idea. If that's not an option, skills are key, and he currently has very little in that department.
