Pro Tip: Infographic - How to Choose the Best Business Chart
Good info graphic and content. Will give Zebra BI a spin a bit later too so the marketing angle worked on me. 
Great infographic, and that's something I've probably never said.

I'm glad they only showed pie charts once as I think that's the worst chart to use for almost any situation (except for visualizing how much pie/pizza/cake is left).
That's awesome, thanks for posting
Please make sure the proper flair is assigned.

Flair changed to Pro Tip.
Nice Job. I run a small business and would like to see more postings that are helpful like this one. 
Great to hear! Would love to get any additional feedback you may have.
Thank you for changing that, we are new to the Reddit community, I could not figure out how to change the flair, please advise.
Ok signed up for 30 day trial will install tomorrow. 

One deal-breaker for me though - if I produce charts using the /u/Zebra_BI plugin how do I share them with clients. I am happy staring at sheets of data every day, the output for stakeholders is where the money is made but if I produce dashboards that require corporate IT to allow a non-standard plugin then the value is lost from the second I attach an email or load to Dropbox. 

Is there a Tableau Reader style export option for users who haven't (and won't ever) install(ed) the plugin
On this sub, there is a button under your post that says "Solved?".

You can click that to change the flair from unsolved to whichever is appropriate.
This is a very good question. All of the charts will show up exactly as you built them even if the end user does not have Zebra BI installed. They will be able to manipulate the data, export, and every other Excel function, other than edit the chart style (so there is no need for Tableau). 

In addition to that we have built in functionality which will allow you to export Zebra BI charts to live PPT, which makes for a really clean presentation of your data. 

Please let me know if that helps.

Ahhh, perfect! Thanks for the tip!
Ha I wish there was no need for Tableau but other systems I use export via API to Tableau, I'd like to lose the costly subscription but... 

Will be trying the charts and Zebra BI over the weekend, will let you know how I get on. Is there a feedback mechanism outside of reddit? Google group or forum or something? 
I sent you a message with my contact info, shoot me an email.
