Data Analyst Salary
I'd say 65k is pretty generous for someone with no experience.

If money is a concern, there's no/to a slim chance that you would get to $90k in the analyst role.  Your opportunity for growth in an analyst role is to move into management.

Good luck!
I'm a forecasting analyst for call centers. I make just under 65k/year.
My old company would pay about $45-55k, but it was more of a entry level, not requiring a engineering background.
I'd like to take a point some others in this thread may disapprove of...  No one loves their job.  Someone is paying you to do a task someone else wouldn't do for free.  The worst case here obviously is you move on and in 9 months hate doing data analysis.  Its slightly depressing to end up in the same place with less money. 

Think very hard about if you actually hate your current role, or just the concept of redundancy/boredom/superiority.  I've had a fair amount of work experience in my career and I can say almost every job will have pros and cons.  Very few jobs on earth are all pros.  I've met Navy pilots who complain about having to go on "Another training mission"...  

Your life is what you make it.  Your career does not define you as a person.  
Having run the gamut, I'll say this: with no experience, that's generous pay.  
 
Additionally, if you're looking to just "enhance" reporting and processes, you'll not break much past that.   You will generally hit the ceiling at about $80k before you need to start doing management or very heavy presenting to VP levels....  which, frankly, winds up not much different than a sales role.   You're just selling your analysis rather than chemicals.
I agree with what I believe is the general consensus ITT; $65 with limited experience is *very* generous.  You're still young, and experience is the first step.  So if that's the direction you see for your career, go for it.  If its what you want.  If you're doing so well in sales now, if this gig doesn't work out, just remind them how successful you were before and ask for your old job back!
I started as a report writer with zero experience at around 50, 2-3 years later my role evolved into a business intelligence developer designing dashboards and doing etl and I make about 50% more than that now with likely room for more

So I definitely think the opportunity for growth exists if you take initiative and continue learning new skills. For instance, I'm pushing for predictive analytics at my company and so I'm learning some advanced statistics and R so I can at least be a part of it even if they hire an expert to take the lead.
I'd be weary of a newly created position that had vague parameters towards expectations and responsibilities that paid $25,000 less than your current salary.  They don't really know what they want, you don't really know what to give them; that's a lot of ground to cover for a junior analyst. 
[deleted]
I work as an associate level Business Analyst for an upstream oil/gas data & software company. I was started at 34,500 but just received a raise to $40,000/yr and I've been in the position for 1.5 years. 

I have taught myself SQL and VBA on the job but have really excelled with both, particularly SQL. DTD responsibilities include... requirements gathering, building business cases, interfacing with development to determine project priorities, proprietary software testing, designing and implementing analytics and metrics, creating business intelligence tools (Excel dashboards/smart reports), tracking lead time, advising supervisors and management, and whatever else is thrown my way. 

I only list everything above so you can have an idea of what I'm doing to earn just 40k. If you're content leaving behind 90k, then 65k is a great start for a DA/BA particularly with only one year of experience.
I made same switch as you, albeit for more cash, $65k is a good starting salary. If you hate the job make the switch, you won't regret it. I left my miserable job and couldn't be more happy now.
I've held two analyst positions with the same company.  In the first, I worked as a Pricing Analyst.  With 1 year of experience, I started at a little over $50k.  After about 2 years in that role, I moved on to a Supply Chain Analyst position at a little over $60k.  I was able to leverage this into a Process Improvement position which has wider responsibilities and a higher salary.



One note of caution:  In a heavy industrial setting, it's been my experience that people not involved in the direct flow of moving product in and out have a pretty low ceiling for promotion, unless they can transition into a project management role.  



Also, I made my most recent move because my last position (the Supply Chain Analyst) was created to keep me within the department when I'd been accepted for another job.  Within the last year, I realized that just about everything that was set out in my original job description had been accomplished and I was spending more and more time managing reports and doing less and less value-added analysis and improvement.  I decided to move before someone realized that my salary wasn't really justified.  This is the danger of moving into a newly created position.  The flipside is that you will, hopefully, have the freedom to set the expectations for the role.   Good luck!
At my company an entry level analyst makes $44-66k per year, level 2 makes $55-77k, and senior analyst makes $77-99k CAD.
Are you sure they wont fire you after your optimize their systems?

A 27% drop in salary (not to mention car/gas/insurance) sounds very painful.
I make 90 but that is because I also have 25+ years of clinical/medical experience which is really what they're paying for.  The combo of clinical + technical/data is hard to find.  

I would love to get formal "data analyst" training so I could learn SQL and really have skills other than self-taught, but I have yet to find a position with a willing mentor.  

I think it would be worth it for you to take the pay cut and gain some truly amazing and brag-worthy experience, and then you could couple your data knowledge and your chemical engineering knowledge to make yourself more valuable to a future company than either group of work experiences would alone.  Pharmaceutical companies, chemical companies, etc.  I think that's what commands the most money.

I've worked with data analysts that have no real world reference or experience for the numbers they're crunching, and it leads to a lot of "data vomiting" with no real value because they can't figure out what is behind the numbers to package accurate data sets.
Hey, I'm a Senior Sales Operations Analyst in London and that yields me £37k a year... 
Just curious...how old are you?  If you're as old as I think you are, why the hell are you even considering this?  Okay, great - you make $90k right now, but again, if you're as old as I think you are...$65k is pretty awesome.  You have all the time in the world to grow and develop your skills in a position that you love and enjoy instead of making more money in a position you hate.

But if you're not as old as I think you are, then carry on :)
If you are not a 'sales guy', chances are you fail in that role. Doesn't matter how much a good sales guy gets paid. Take this into account, but also the fact that not everything about any job will be fulfilling.


There are a lot of site like salary.com where you can find similar job titles/descriptions and see average salaries and benefits by region/city.

For an entry level analyst, 65 is on the high side for all except the largest metro (NYC, CHI, SF, LA, etc.)

However, the job you describe doesn't sound entry level. It sounds more like a Sr analyst position if you need to work undirected, write scripts, develop business processes, etc.  

I think you can probably explain your situation, and the compensation cut you'd be taking, and see if there is a way to increase the base 10 to 15%, or perhaps get a larger bonus based on objective metrics (defining the objective metrics can be really hard out of the gate though).

For reference, I have about 15 years experience in this area, most recently as a pricing manager with one direct report who made about 50k straight out of college (no VBA skills, only moderate Excel) in LA.
2nd year as an analyst, looking to move towards data analyst and general analytics/big data, very very advanced excel skills, advanced VBA, DAX/PowerPivot and basic SQL (enough to get by) - £26k.

Generally lower paid in the UK, but I do really enjoy my job...


Regardless of pay, your position in the company will change. 

Everyone wants data, and most people figure the thing they want to know is either in your head, or really easy to get.  Imagine being a painter and getting requests for a painting of a house.  You paint a house, and then people ridicule your painting because it didn't match the idea in their head. 

Data folks tend to work a lot, have to be really smart, and don't get a ton of respect. That is likely very different in a sales job.

Source:  about 8 years in media analytics in various roles. 
If you're looking to take it, you could do a couple of things.

Easy method: Use them for work experience, move on in a few years. Get as much experience and education and good connections out of it that you can.

Less easy method: Immerse yourself in the business while doing what they are asking. Get good and making recommendations for improvements and be able to back up your research (ROI is paramount. Money talks.). Eventually you will need to expand your operations, which means you will need lackies. Convince the company that you will need to lead a team of analysts, programmers, and operators, and bam, now you're a manager. this would probably take 4-5 years minimum.
Two years as an analyst, 5 total with my company.  Previously I was in sales and management roles.  I'm making $60k + other benefits (healthcare, gas card, expense account, car allowance).  


Currently live in Los Angeles.  As far as I can tell from regular interaction with analysts from our competitors, I believe I am on the lower end of the pay scale.  We rarely talk specifics but I've heard ballpark figures for a few guys ranging up to $80-90k.
I was a data analyst for 4 years with HP until 9/14. I made $19/hr to start and ended with $25/hr as a contractor. It was my first data analyst job, but I had 13 years of experience in tech and am pretty awesome with excel. 
You may want to look into some of the classes at [Coursera](https://www.coursera.org/) or [Lynda](http://www.lynda.com/member.aspx). They are pretty great at giving you a crash course in some of the database and language skills you may need. It will give you an idea of what skills you might need and what you might want to learn to bring additional value. Going above is what typically leads to increases in salary.
 Curious on how you can maximize your salary? Check out salarytalk.org You can find government reported salaries for many different companies and positions such as government jobs and associate positions. Also we provide data charts for each company to help forecast future hiring seasons to make job searching more efficient.
Flair set to discussion.
I think that's b/s.  Depending on the area there are a lot of analyst type positions that will pay 90+ but they require at least 5 years exp.
I am currently 25 so although money is important, work/life balance and finding something I love is more important to me.  I went the, how can I make the most money out of college route and although I am doing 'well' I am certainly not happy. 

I learned money does not always buy happiness the hard way!  But yes, I thought 65k for have essentially zero experience was completely fair.
I make $83k a year as a GS-13 operations research analyst for the Army. With step increases, I'll be over $90k in 3 years.
> I'd say 65k is pretty generous for someone with no experience.

Sure, but the job description is not for an entry-level position.  

Damn. I practically have the same job, but don't get paid even near half of that. I'm in Manila though, so the cost of living are different. But still.
Very cool thanks for your input.  How many years of experience do you have?  Do you have much room for advancement in your current position or are you content with your responsibilities as they are right now? 

Thanks again! 
Narf.
Sounds about right from what I have been reading.  This position is listed in the 1-3 years of direct analysis experience.  So it is not entry level, but almost. 
I appreciate you taking the time to write this up because you are absolutely right, not enough people take the time to think 'why' they hate their current role. For me it is two things:
1)  I work 50-60 hours a week on average.  I "like" to work, it gives me purpose and something to do.  But my current role I am essentially always "on call" to clients.  There is no separation between my work life and my social life, they are one and the same. I feel burned out never being able to leave work at work.  In the new role my boss was very open that they did not want me working more than 40 hours, and that once you leave you don't have to bring it with you.  
2)  As bizarre as it sounds, I feel someone lonely in my current role.  I have a home office so I have no fellow coworkers. I rarely interact with my boss (once every two weeks?) or fellow employees in the company.  I essentially do everything myself, and only interactions I have are with my clients which are superficial at best. I would love to be able to drive to an office, and have an office/cubical surrounded by others that I could talk or interact with.  I am sure that sounds weird but to me it would be a huge pro, and in my new role I would be surrounded by 200+ people in the department.

But yes.  I am very aware that I could leave my current high paying position to have a lower paying one that I could also hate.  Its one of those, this decision will definitely affect the rest of my life so I am treading carefully!  I appreciate your input
Very insightful.  You kind of hit the head on the nail with you are 'selling analysis' rather than chemicals and this is exactly what I am looking for.  If you look at a previous comment, I am looking to leave my current role because of the no separation of work/life and the lack of social interaction I currently have. 

I would love to learn their processes for a year or two and then transition into a management role or presenting high level strategies as you suggested.  Essentially use my strong sales background to my advantage.  

Thanks!
hah I like it!  My current area is extremely niche meaning their are many jobs but few have the experience to do it, so it would indeed be easy to go back as a last resort.
Do you have any advice on what kind of Master's degree one should pursue if they have a love of data, stats, designing dashboards, etc.  I see some stats degrees (might be over my head), and a lot of informatics stuff, but I'm in healthcare and I'd rather be less math and more real-world skills (SQL, database design, etc.)  No data analysts I know can give me a straight answer on how they obtained their skills, and none of them have a degree in anything related.
My father is head of IT at a large Insurance company.  This is his primary concern too!

It will be a very challenging position and the hiring manager was very upfront about wanting to take on someone who was intelligent and was up for the challenge rather than someone who already has all the answers.

But you could not be more right.   It is a sink or swim type role and there would be a HUGE amount of ground to cover. 
As someone in a related field (OTC Derivatives valuation), I have to point out that being a "quant" requires a lot of specialist skills and knowledge that you wouldn't expect a baseline data analyst to have.
Sounds awesome man!  Hopefully you aren't like my friends who work on wall street that make 150k+ but work 100 hours/week no joke.  Sounds like you have great employment, congrats to you!
If you can do all that youre getting waaayyy underpaid. You in Houston? DA roles doing that start at min $60K
This is exactly like me, similar pay ($37,000) as well. They just added ETL(sql server and cognos framework  modeling) and cognos report/dashboards creation. No raise coming this year.  

Glad this thread can show a market worth of my skills
This was very encouraging!  Thanks!
Yeah luckily the role is to be the sole person and then moving forward they plan to hire 5-10 additional analysts over the next 1-3 years.  I would then transition into managing this team of analysts.  So they have a significant need that will only grow and won't be 'solved' anytime soon!
Not if you're smart in your approach. Make their systems depend on your solutions and they will keep you around.
I just saw this was your original reply to the topic. What area of the country are you in (if even US at all)? I'm also in healthcare. We'd punch ourselves in the face to find someone with 25 years of clinical experience who is interested in the analytical side of things.

I'd think you'd have an easy route into the EHR build/customization type roles if that interests you. 


IMO, It seems that Analyst make 'overall' more in the US than in Europe.  I'd be curious if there is a different business philosophy on analysts roles within the company and what value they bring.  It would appear US companies place greater value while European place slightly less.  Just found it interesting!
I am 25 (and a half technically)  so I feel like I am young enough that I should make this switch NOW.  I feel like every year I continue in the consulting/sales position only solidifies me never being able to make the switch out of it!
That was extremely helpful information!  I think part of them not knowing 'what' they need means they also don't know what level experience individual they need. I think you are absolutely right, and it is targeted more for a Senior Analyst

(My personal favorite is glassdoor.com I find it surprisingly accurate)
Thank you!  I will try to be better about that next time I post!
[deleted]
In what part of the country?  I know people who came out of college into an entry level analyst role at $75k.... in NYC.
You are correct.  If you're in the Bay area or NYC, you can get $90k.
Correction. There are plenty of "Data Analyst" jobs that are closer to "SQL Developer" jobs, and ya, development pays.

You're not going to find a more generous Data Analyst position that does not involve building and maintaining databases at the server level using SQL and automating processes using VBA.
You're 25? You're too young to be working a job you hate for the money. You can live just fine on 65k, take the job.
for the job it's completely fair, but why leave your such chemE job to take a 50% pay cut?

I'm leaving a similar field role to move towards a more stable, analytical type role, but I sure wouldn't leave for less money.  I was up front with my salary expectations and the people I interviewed with appreciated that I wasn't wasting their time.  

I'm going from $75 + car/insurance/gas/expense and fielded 3 offers below that and have accepted one at $80 + profit sharing+ about a 30% reduction in cost of living (NY to MI)+ much less daily travel - 

Stepping back in pay means that will be your new base when you're looking for your next position.  The $30k that you give up isn't just for this year, you'll be expected to prove yourself to get back into your current pay band. Throw in compound interest on lost earnings over the course of a career, you're talking a huge chuck of $$$

Tl;Dr: look for something that won't hurt your lifetime earning potential.  
From what I have read, government jobs are awesome when you take into account benefits, work/life balance, etc.  How did you land your first government job? 

I heard it is VERY difficult to go from private field to public field because they almost exclusively hire from within/veterans/etc.  So i was just curious!
I too think the company has priced this job for an experienced candidate, I'm surprised the company wants a candidate with no experience in their selection.  It speaks volumes to OP's sales ability.
I do have room for advancement. I took a job doing staff capacity plans last year, and when this job came up I was offered more to stay. I took this job because I had a better career path. I will probably end up running my department eventually.
I've never read any books on the subject, but ICMI is a great resource. Also, Tiffany Lareau (Google the name) has a blog with a lot of valuable insight into Workforce Management.

I did attend the Aspect ACE conference in Vegas this year - that's the extent of the networking and training that I've done in this industry. I was fortunate enough to receive a lot of good training on the job from people who are smarter than I am, over the course of the last 7 years.

Feel free to DM me if you have any specific questions. I'm happy to help where I can.
I've done both the home office and worked on several trade floors,  had a very nice secluded office,  and even several times worked on a table with 5+ people for months.  Here is my advice...

Social interaction is vital to most personality types.  Your co workers can become close friends that develop healthy relationships.  These jobs are amazing.  However, in my experience most people will keep the social aspect at arms length to maintain a "professional distance". Especially management.  

If it were me... I'd keep the job that allows me to work from home for more money and go out and make friends outside of work.  Being lonely completely sucks but I don't think you're going to find a "work family" in most office environments..   My advice,  take 2-3 weeks off,  bring one of your close friends on a vacation.  If you come back and the verdict is the same,  there's plenty of jobs paying 60k right now..  Worst case scenario,  you burn your PTO,  then work another 2 months to effectively vest a free vacation.  
Then you're set.  Especially in a corporate atmosphere, being able to present confidently (even if you're flat out wrong) is what they want.  You'll do well...  but there may still be many days you're not seeing anything but your desk.  Finance is not a 9-5 once you break past $60k.
So far, I'm only in my second semester in the program, [but I am doing this program](http://sps.northwestern.edu/program-areas/graduate/predictive-analytics/) and I really love it. It's math and programming and analysis all wrapped into one. Not sure if it will pay out in the long run, but so far I'd recommend it.
I have a bachelor's in journalism, so I'm part of the unrelated crowd. Biostatistics and bioinformatics would probably be the way to go, especially if you see yourself staying in healthcare. 

My feeling is things like SQL and database design will be learned over time in whatever you are doing. I made many web apps with horrible backbend databases as I learned what worked and what didn't. I walked in with rudimentary knowledge of SQL and now teach it at my company. 

In my opinion a masters program doesn't beat a commitment to learning everyday
Tell me about it man. My company is notorious for paying below market. The upside is that I'm only 3 years out of school and I'm learning A LOT every day. I've also got an awesome manager who let's me head off in whatever direction I want as long as I'm delivering. I've had multiple offers recently for 50+ but those jobs didn't really have my interest. I'm in San Antonio so getting by on 40 is much easier than it would be in Houston. The plan is to keep working hard here and learning as much as possible while looking for a better opportunity that will pay accordingly.
Was literally making 37k two days ago but *just* got a raise. It's a great job but damn are we underpaid! 
I'm in Colorado.  :)  EHR and data both interest me.  
That's what I thought.  I definitely had you within a year.  Man, I'm good.  I'm 24 1/2

But anyway, I would make the switch.  Make it now before you end up getting bitter and stuck in the motions in your current position.  It won't end up going well for you.  While you are very fortunate to be making $90k this early in the game, you will respect yourself more for doing something you enjoy.  That and you'll just get more fulfillment out of life because you'll do something you enjoy.  You have years to get back to $90k.  Companies will respect you if you tell them you're taking the hit to do something you enjoy.

Oh and no offense but your parents are horrible for telling you to stick with the money.  If they cared about your happiness at all, they wouldn't hesitate to tell you to take the position that you WANT, not the one that pays the most money but you hate or don't get enjoyment out of it.  But yes, they are probably correct in that it will take 5+ years for you to make back 90k.

You could also probably negotiate $70k if the base is 65 too but I've never negotiated so I'll defer to someone else on that.

Just my two cents.  I'd give anything to make $65k right now.
Im seconding this, 1.5yrs experience in consulting before the analyst gig.
Are you an analyst? Or are you a developer/analyst?

Do you know and use SQL? Do you know and use VBA? Because the traditional role of Analyst knew their way around excel and mathematical calculations, and got their bulk data to analyze in Access and Excel from the BI Developer. 

In these Agile days, there isn't a difference between the developer and the analyst anymore. The Analyst is expected to know programming languages.

The term "Analyst" has been changed to something it wasn't 5 years ago.
Ah, so just above the poverty line for they Bay Area.
Outside Boston you can snag certain analyst positions paying 80-120K if you had 3-5 years of solid experience.
NYC cost of living is high though.
I'm an hour outside of Boston and I can find those jobs.
Which OP  said he would be doing
Unfortunately my current position is a consulting role; meaning we have no corporate office but instead home offices.  Although there are some, there are very few jobs in analytical/corporate roles and everything is focused around consulting/sales roles.  

So although it is indeed a significant pay cut, I am currently work on average 50-60 hours a week, and as weird as it sounds I feel very lonely? being at my home office with no coworkers to interact with.

But yes you are right. I should see if their are any other analytical roles that I would enjoy without taking such a significant pay cut. I am glad you found something that sounds perfect for you AND  you got a pay raise! Nice work
The agency I work for held an open recruiting visit at the math and physics department where I went to school.  I had just decided not to go to grad school for physics, so I gave them my resume.  Got an internship for 2 years, then started as a GS-11.  Took 5.5 more years to get to GS-13, which is pretty quick compared to other areas of government.

You're right about hiring from within or from the population of retiring military.  I found the one path where they're actively trying to get new blood in the door.  

Also, I work in Kansas.  
What do you expect the cost of the degree to be, both in terms of time and money?
Thanks for the advice!  I agree that there is much one could learn on-the-job, and in fact took my current job because they already had a very experienced data analyst and I wanted a mentor to expand my skillset.  A year and a half later, and he refuses to teach me anything and in fact sabotages my projects at any chance.  I would love a job where I would be given the opportunity to learn, but every Data Analyst job I've seen in healthcare seems to want you to walk in the door with not only advanced skills but LEAN and Six Sigma on top of it.  That is why I'm considering going back for another Masters (I have half of my MBA already).  Because it seems that's the only way to get my foot in the door to obtain some real data skills.
Do you make 90k?
That's exactly my point.
So do you want me to add Boston to the list?  

For analysts, you all are some literal mofos.  

I've worked in three states, and over the course of 10 years have made it to $75k as a Senior Analyst.  Congrats to you all who have done better.  For most of the geographic country, you're not going to hit $90k in an analyst role.
So its not an analyst job, and its not an analyst type role.

It is a developer role. He is looking to get into an entry level BI Developer position and everyone is running around using the word "analyst".
No this isn't weird at all. Working from home isn't for a lot of people. 

I had a CEO tell me once during an interview, "You're in your 20s, it doesn't matter how much we pay you, you'll find a way to spend it." The takeaway here is you can make it work on any* salary. If you're going to be happy working 40 hours a week in an office type job, over being miserable but making $40k more, do what makes you happy. You have plenty of time left to be miserable.

*any is of course relative, there is a lower threshold.
I think all told in terms of cash the program ends up being $45-50k. A lot of this is being paid for work by me, so I'm getting off pretty easy. 

In terms of time, I would say that I spend somewhere between 10-15 hours a week depending on the week doing homework and reading. This is for two classes a quarter. The program is twelve classes, so it depends on how quickly you take classes, but for most it is two years.
The person who hired me openly admitted later that I was only interviewed because I was an internal candidate at the company. She didn't expect much from the interview, but the most beneficial thing for me was the side projects I'd done. I took on data related things for family and friends for free as a way of learning and having something I could talk about in an interview even without job experience. In the end, she took a chance on me that a lot of people may not have.

I made some of the typical access database type things to assist other people but also made a pretty robust system to do the job I had. So if you have the time and are currently lacking a sales application, or an automated way to track even one aspect of your current job, that's a place you could start. I imagine in sales you have a pretty good crm, but look for things you are constantly tracking on paper or in excel as something you could make a database for. You could then develop SQL reports on top of it to further assist you in your job.

When I went that route, I figured even if it didn't get me a job right away, at least I took 95% of the tedious work out of my day to day, which then afforded me a lot more time to learn more things during work hours.

Tangible projects will look good even without the relevant education

before equity
I'm not even talking about boston.  Framingham and Marlborough MA have some huge companies.  Also depends on type of analytics.

Depending on where you live 75K might be the equivalent of making like 1 20K up here.
There is SO much truth to: "You have plenty of time left to be miserable".  Great advice that really resonated with me!
Taking it upon myself to do side projects is how I got to move to data analyst, so it is sound advice.  But now I feel like I've plateaued regarding what I can learn by myself, especially being blocked by the other analyst.  I'll keep looking for other jobs.  :)
What are your tools?
Framingham, MA isn't exactly Bloomington, IL or KC, MO or even Cincinnati, OH.  

Try anywhere outside of the NE corridor or California and check the going rate for a data analyst.  $90k is largely unreachable for most analysts.
Excel SQL Tableau PPT and a smidge of python and R
Maybe for data alone but you could move onto a financial or development analyst easily.
