Introducing: Reddit Sourced - Excel Templates, sourced from and created by /r/excel
You should contact /r/vba mods and ask their community to participate as well :)
I'll contribute a few useful VBA routines.  I also suggest a "what not to do and why not" section.  Any ideas on how to implement a "Don't do this!" demo workbook?
Damn the mods in this sub are amazing.
This sounds great. I always like the templates I make, but without fail I can come on this sub and find someone who has found a quicker or cleaner way to do what I've done.

I look forward to seeing what we can make here.
I think this is a brilliant idea. Especially for someone like me who is still learning. 
Great idea. I'm in. 
I've got a really good points calculator I can upload, with conditional formatting, easily altered points tables, and bonus criteria! I just need to clean it up a bit.
Sounds like a great idea. 

So will each template have a broad based use and will then be edited based around that functionality?
Woot woot. Let's crush this!
Any /r/excel template will definitely [need this.](http://www.reddit.com/r/excel/comments/30srpi/not_the_macro_you_need_but_the_macro_you_deserve/)
I like the idea of the VBA vs. Non VBA.  There are practical implications, as many people don't have the security set up for macros, this is especially true post 2007 office.  Some people's emails may even block xlsm files directly and only accept xlsx (usually .zip will get you around it, but sometimes it won't).

Aside from that, I have taken some joy intellectually by putting my hands behind my back for some requests on this board/or for my office, and not using vba on principle.  That said, some functionality certainly does lend itself to the vba hammer.
Great idea. I'm a newbie but I'd love to help and learn.
I'll give this a go.
I'm in! Sounds like a good way to learn some new skills. 
Aww yisss.  Can't wait for this to get rolling.
I would love to contribute!  And learn -- I've picked up so many valuable tips from this forum.
Great idea. I'm in! I have some fun macros and tricks I've used over the years.
There's one mod, and we've tried to contact him in the past. He's not responsive.

I may just advertise there for the sake of it.
I'm happy to help with rallying VBA support!
Great idea
I personally think what not to do, why not, and what you should do instead is probably more helpful to the vast majority.  "Don't use goto, cause you will run into trouble in the long run." is all well and good, but taking a concrete example and showing how you could modify a typical use of goto, and showing how it can be done with a while loop etc..  Personally I would be weary of opening something that doesn't have commented bad code... certain things might be better as educational videos/gifs of what happens with certain code.  As much as it is fun to see things hang for yourself, I feel quite comfy having someone else break out of the infinite loops cause they forgot to disable events.

Wow that came across too negative.  I do think a set of pitfalls is a great idea, I just want to emphasize the need for a solution/workaround, if these are to be used as learning tools.
Thanks =D
I've got a credit card tracker that I could upload.
The template we initially upland will be generic. It'll be upto the community to provide as much additional functionally as they can onto the template. 
Anyone reading /r/vba is reading /r/excel.

Trust me.
Pray-tell kind sir.
Same! Mine breaks things down by category, vendor, and amount.
Agree. I get way more help in here with VBA than /r/VBA
I have many former colleagues who need practice in developing VBA templates.  Although I don't want to work with them, I still mentor them. This will provide a great resource for me to train my friends while contributing to a great cause. 
