Power BI section
I'm not a mod but I'll voice my opinion anyway. I'm not sure there would be enough interest in Power BI alone to warrant a separate subreddit, but I would be happy to see more content around those tools here. Personally, I have dabbled in PowerPivot but haven't touched PowerQuery. We use an older version of Excel at work without these tools built in, so I can't deliver any work in them, sadly. Long story short, any question someone might have about these tools, I would probably have too so I would be interested in reading them.
I personally would find this very helpful. I never grasped what Power Pivot could actually do..  
/r/BusinessIntelligence
I can't speak for the mod team as a whole, but personally I think it's great with more Power-suite stuff on here. With the next versions of Excel and the subscription model, they will be more integrated into Excel and more applicable in go-to solution suggestions, so it is definitely relevant to /r/excel. 

Right now most of the power stuff is more "niche" (it usually requires an install of an add-on, or PowerBI is a separate subscription, or people are working on older versions of Excel) so we get fewer questions about it on here, and fewer people know about it, but it would be awesome if you or other strong power-users could help change that! If a solution can be done through a power application, put it out there and let people bask in your glory :P  

As for the current status of Power suite things on /r/excel it's pretty limited, but the /u/MSPowerMap team occasionally brings in updates and talks to the community both here and in /r/datavisualization (IIRC). I personally haven't had much of a chance to work with it in the past (old/different versions of excel on corporate computers, not possible to deliver homogeneously with power products, etc.), but I'd love to see / hear more about how I could use it from people who are experienced with it.

If you have any ideas on what could be done to promote the Power-solutions (or attract more Power-problems to solve), or have something you would like to do on the sub, you're always welcome to put it out there in a thread like this or message the mods or whatever. Any kind of user-driven projects, templates, pro-tips, discussions, etc. are always welcome. 
I think as it's still "early days", we should keep it in /r/excel

Once it becomes more mainstream it would be better suited to its own sub.
One of the difficulties I have is that I am not interested in traditional excel solutions, but am very interested in the BI side solutions, but finding them when they are posted is really difficult.  Would there be a way to separate them out from the general Excel Q's?
Would absolutely second that.
Have a read in to dimensional modelling

Ralph Kimball is pretty much the authority when it comes to this.

Also, look at Chris Webb's, Marco Russo's and Alberto Ferrari's blogs - they have plenty of articles which will help you get to grips with it.
My go to resource is powerpivotpro.com, which is Rob Collie mostly and then guest posts.  He is not as technical as the Italians but his stuff in general also a lot easier to understand.  That is where I would begin my journey.
Agreed. I rarely get to field Power Pivot questions :(
So much this! I have the same problem - I dabble in quite a bit of vba too, but definitely anything business intelligence/ Power BI related I'm interested in on here. Very hard to find good resources outside of a couple of main blogs for power bi/dax/"M" learning

There's one right here that came up a few hours ago: 

http://www.reddit.com/r/excel/comments/382b4l/can_i_overlay_pivot_tables_with_one_anopther/

but it's not often they come up. 
lol of course one pops up today
