What is the best online Excel learning program for consulting/strategy type work?
Excel Is Fun YT channel
Stephen Few is, *in my opinion* the undisputed world wide authority on visualisation and "when to use what charts" - look into his blog I think its called Perceptive Edge or something. He came around to our country and did a 3 day workshop which our company paid like $2000 - $3000 to attend for each staff. We all thought it was worth it.

He hates pie graphs.

I used books to learn rather than videos. Ive got afew pdfs - pm me if you want a copy.

Edit: added in "in my opinion" to avoid the unnecessary and useless argument over whether he is or isn't the undisputed world wide heavy weight champion of visualisation 
Check out excelexposure.com
chandoo is really the only excel resource you need.  
You don't need training, you need to explore and exercise your brain. And you had better have a solid grasp of basic accounting and finance.  
Create a business plan.  Plan a coffee shop or a gravel pit, does not really matter.  Full Income Statement, Balance Sheet and Cash Flow for 36 months.  Working capital and COGS in line with sales; variable, semi-fixed, and fixed costs; cash, financing, interest and dividends.  What's the investors' ROI?

I'd recommend just using your personal finances to begin with. With most banks you can export a csv of all  your transactions. From there you can categorize transactions, build historical models, projections, different scenarios, and maybe even give yourself some recommendations based on your spending. 
As an analyst you may need to pull data, organize it, control for variables, display the key drivers, and make recommendations with other synthesized data or business plans. You can largely do this with your finances, it'll just take a little creativity.
Nothing is better than experience and a mentor, but I found chandoo.com helpful as well.
Lynda.com has some good instructional videos. 
The unsolved section is amazing.  I'm looking to get into consulting, where do you go to find work?
for me it was a job in finance
I am a big fan of excel-easy
I cannot praise ExcelIsFun enough. Dude is just a fucking awesome teacher.
Not OP but I PMed you as I am also interested in those PDFs! 
> Stephen Few is the undisputed world wide authority on visualisation and "when to use what charts" 

No, he definitely is not.
Chandoo has good technical skills but he goes for the wow value of the features rather than focusing on whether dashboard is communicating anything.

Eg his gauges take up too much space in proportion to the amount of info that it communicates. You could easily communicate more using less space with a bullet chart. Critical when it comes to dashboard design principles.
haha yep! I love the first 15 sec of each video. So much energy.
oh really, ok
