Looking to teach an Excel lunch-and-learn? Use my templates!
Pros: Won't have to show someone how to use a filter.    

Cons: Won't be mysterious Excel Wizard.
That sounds nice; socializing and getting to know people..... Think I'll just stay the mysterious hermit that is in dark region of the office.

It's better this way.
thanks
Very nice! I'll be checking these out.

I've coordinated many of these, and led a few. I highly recommend this approach if you:

1. want to learn the topics well enough to teach it  
2. improve your social standing with colleagues and superiors  
3. help your team be more effective overall
This is great! :)  
Thank you
very nice
awesome,
im not very entusiastic about the lunch and learn concept, but i will check your wordbooks since they seems to be of very good quality.

thanks.

dropbox is blocked at my office, but I'll definitely be downloading the pivot table one later because I have no idea how to work them and people tell me the pivot table is the greatest thing ever created.
Nice idea, and well executed. 

One suggestion for the module on using the fill handle: This might be a good place to discuss absolute vs. relative references in formulas.
You absolute god send I've been meaning to do something similar to this in my workplace for months but not found the time to generate / find materials. Thanks! 
Nice.. First time I've been considered advanced in anything
This is excellent.  Thank you!
\+ 1 for not having any identifying information in the files!
What an EXCELent idea!!
On the advanced sheet. The text forumula - test tab has an error in the pre-filled cell, E2. You only put the first letter of the first name instead of 2 like the note asks for.
This is great, I'm about to do a lunch and learn this month!
Pretty new to using excel in general, why do you consider merge and center to be cringe worthy? Sorry for any inconveniences I may have caused.
Awesome! Learned some neat tricks :) 
I actually have to do this as part of my goals for this year.  Good to have this now, don't need to make my own.

Thanks
Hi /u/MidevilPancake

Can you please provide solution to the 'Array Formula - Test' question. It says to "Find the max number of units sold given the prefix of product code. (Hint: use text formulas)". I've tried using a combination of LEFT, IF & MAX, but my formula is containing errors. 

I'm still learning Excel and found these workbooks useful. Thanks.

EDIT: This seemed to work: {=MAX(IF(LEFT($D$2:$D$100,4)=J2,$G$2:$G$100))}
>Employees who attend bring their lunches

If I have to bring my own lunch I'm not going to a lunch and learn! Either a vendor needs to supply or if it's in house the department putting it on better have something!
Pro: People will leave you alone

Con: The pretty girl from 6 won't come and see you every day.
Friendly coworkers sure do help the day go by, though!
No problem! Happy to help!
Yep, all great benefits of the program!
Happy to help!
Thanks!
Thank you! Use them however you'd like!
This isn't really a tutorial, rather an example workbook for someone (a teacher) to walk through and show others how to use the features. It assumes the teacher knows the material, this just gives them a nice platform to show others.

If you're looking for a tutorial, I'd recommend [this.](http://www.excel-easy.com/data-analysis/pivot-tables.html)
Thanks!

I planned on doing that exact thing, it's one of the things I planned on mentioning while giving the presentation. I should have provided a small example with that, too though. I'll update the file if I do! 
Thank you! Happy to help!
Congrats! Sometimes you don't know what others don't know. 
Happy to help!
I try my best!
Thank you so much!
Thanks for catching that, didn't see that until now! Just updated the file and the link!
Let me know how it goes!
Haha they're not really *that* bad, just something you should try and avoid, especially when there's a much better option that yields very similar results like /u/Valdayne suggested. 

To add a little bit more detail, merged cells cause all sorts of problems especially when dealing with references. Trying to reference a merge cell (which technically has two or more addresses) is a pain. Also, when trying to copy and paste anything that includes a merged cell, you'll get an error that says "Cannot paste merged cells" or something of that order. Again, nothing major, but still kinda bothersome.
Yep, that's the exact formula I was looking for!
\*Insert Excel pick up line here\*
Hi /u/MidevilPancake

Sorry, me again. For the 'Text Formulas - Test' question: Create customer's password given the following formula:
Last 3 of last name +
First 2 of first name +
Length of their country name +
Last 2 of ID
 
I have this formula:

=RIGHT(C3,3)&LEFT(B3,2)&LEN(F3)&RIGHT(A3,2)

Is this correct as I've noticed I'm not using 'SEARCH' function as used in the example?
*Girl, I'd totally love to be spread on your sheets tonight.*
No problem! I'm glad you're asking questions and doing these, that's how you learn!

And yes, that's the exact formula I used. I probably could have come up with a better test that includes the SEARCH function, but I just wanted to show people how it worked.
"I'd love to look up your v"
I managed to complete the three workbooks without googling (which is some achievement for me), though I still don't fully understand INDEX & MATCH.
Thanks for your help and time!
My dick is pivotable
You turn my software into hardware - and there's nothing micro soft about me. 
[Here's my go-to recommendation](http://www.randomwok.com/excel/how-to-use-index-match/) for INDEX(MATCH). It really works well in breaking it down into pieces. 
"baby sit on my face so I can VLOOKUP my way to your heart"
If we were in prison, I'd happily merge my cell with yours. 
