What are some of the more interesting and/or high-paying jobs where being "good" at Excel will take you far?
I would look at taking an analyst role in a wide variety of industries.  There are a lot of positions in manufacturing that greatly benefit from strong excel skills.  I've also seen quite a few in marketing and sales.  

The biggest benefit you can have is how you convey your skills on a resume and in an interview.  Excel is usually a prerequisite, but if you can demonstrate the ability to use excel to help find solutions to problems, you'll make yourself much more marketable. 
Actuarial science. Excel is a great stepping stone to some of the more in-depth programs mentioned here like SAS, R, and SQL-based software.
Accounting. It has been pretty advantageous for me to be advanced in excel and VBA.
Definitely a Business or Reporting Analyst would be good, but they often require a degree in finance or business. You might want to look at Analytics. These jobs usually require an IT degree and strong SQL and VBA experience too.

Not sure what you do but the other role is an executive assistant or senior administrative assistant. They do a ton of reporting.
I just started as a systems analyst at fortune 500 financial corporation. It is difficult to get into the industry with "I am good at excel and have taken classes to prove it" on your resume in my experience. I got my current position by getting an unrelated entry level job in the company, networking, and then demonstrating ability. Feel free to pm and good luck!
Mergers and Acquisitions.  You need to be very good at Excel and have a good understanding of Finance.  For me, it is more interesting than "normal" finance roles because all projects you work on are high-level (executive/board level) and strategically, very important to the growth of the company.
Didn't think I should start a similar post so I am jumping on this topic.

I will be transitioning out of the Marines in a few months. And for the past 12 years, I have been using word, excel, and power point daily for work purposes. I've messed around with access as well, but never really got into making something useable. 

For excel specifically I have gotten very good at using formulas for the various databases I have created and used.

From reading other posts, I should start learning sql and python. I messed around with very basic html back when geocities was around, and to personalize my myspace. 

So really my question is pretty much the same, as well as me trying to figure out how to put all this time I've used Microsoft office to good use. 







Analyst here. Can confirm, Excel skills will take you far in analytics.
Ah the title your looking for is optimization specialist 
I'm on £50,000, age 29, VB Analyst/Developer. I'm pretty good though :)

Depends on the industry. In finance, a strong VB developer could get up to £90,000 - but you'll be worked like a horse. Some other industries you'll be treated more like an oracle of sorts or a problem solver - people just give you something roughly logic/number/excel based, and ask you to code a solution through a combination of VBA, data tables, addins, data connections, etc.

You don't have to stay limited to 'just excel' either. Half of my shit you could pay someone to write in something like c#, but much more expensive. Using the power of the native excel and wiser windows COM environment and API calls, installing some drivers, and there's very little I can't replicate in that environment. 

You find the need to switch to VB6/c# when you need better controls (scheduling grids, mouse over script; Background_Workers are handy in VB6)

My current stuff imports data from MySQL server I administer, displays it in a Query Table, have worksheet change/selection change functions write your entered values back to the MySQL database, and then I code Windows/PowerPoint-style shapes to create Gantt charts, which themselves have on-click macros behind them, creates at runtime. All very quick, slick, sexy, and do the job
Actuarial analysts here.  We do almost everything in excel.  
I second this one. Accounting + VBA puts you at god status to most regular accountants.
Analyst here. Only if you know something more serious, too, though. Excel is for quickly checking up on something in less than 10 minutes. If you do your main work in Excel, you're 5-10 years behind the times. 
Word.  Plus learn VBA and probably some kind of SQL.
.
To be fair, that depends on the industry and company. The vast majority of our work now (finance) is sql/matlab/python but the last analyst role I worked in the clothing industry was 100% excel.
I sort of agree, because I'm aware of Excel's limitations... and I do think it has been a massive help to me knowing other stuff...

But equally, in my experience, Excel (if using VBA) is sufficient for *most* analysis tasks at *most* companies.
I kinda know this but the problem is that I know Excel. I know a bit of Access, VBA and a tiny bit of SQL but whenever I need to do something I use Excel because I know it and I therefore don't learn the skills for the others. 
I disagree only because I undercut our more 'serious' coders all the time (cost and time) because you code in what, and how you know to do it. If it can be done in VB, then dong it in c# or something else is pointless.

I don't disagree that knowing something more 'serious' is a good idea - because you should be open minded and flexible about what each language is best suited for. I've pushed back on projects I've said that someone else would do a better/more powerful/open sourced job of.

VBA is a stepping stone to VB6, and you should pick up SQL in its various forms too. VB6 could also be seen as a stepping stone to c#.

Being 'behind the times' is relative to the industry and the job required. Some places still pay some 60+ yr old person 100s of thousands to administer/code some antiquated system that they're too heavily reliant on (think Banks that house everything in some system written in 1991)
Loads of ways. Right now for instance I'm taking a huge number of data with projections based by countries. Assigning the projections to the Lines of data with really simple VBA, using those projections to make profit forecasts then displaying that output through some pivot tables that allow you to select weeks, channels and various attributes. We're then using that to determine where our top performing business partners are and allowing our business units and our senior management to optimise and spot where money is expected to bleed out etc.


I work for a mortgage company, and I do volume forecasts for our call center operations. We use Aspect software to track growth rates and seasonality patterns, but I still rely heavily on Excel to model cyclic patterns. For instance, I have to determine how much extra inbound call volume we're expected to receive on a late charge cutoff date, and plug that factor into our software so we can determine if we need to solicit overtime hours for that day. 
Yeah, I work in politics, and it's all SQL/Python/R/Stata/BUGS. The main things Excel is used for is either loading up small datasets and checking up on if everything's okay with them visually, or it can be faster than anything else for really simple quick-and-dirty requests for a table or chart some really simple data summary. If you're just writing a non-technical memo about some numbers that doesn't go beyond maybe a linear regression line in complexity, Excel is great for keeping track of that. 

For serious modeling, and very certainly for non-linear Bayesian simulations, you couldn't even use Excel if you wanted to. Neither can you for datasets with billions of cells.

I mean, I love Excel. But I'm trying to wean myself off from using it for things that you really shouldn't be doing in Excel, it's not a good habit to have.
I am interested in learning more about analytics and stuff like sql and Python. Not so much for a specific analyst job but to be able to produce reports with quantitative analysis to support arguments/recommendations. Could you suggest any online resources to get me going in the right direction? 
Yeah it almost becomes a crutch. Because it can do most things, I use it for most things and don't learn how to use other tools which might be more effective. 
Right, but that's only a good excuse if you're not a professional. If you want to do complex high-level work (which is what I figured /u/coppergone was talking about with "taking you far in Analytics", you'll need skills in modeling that Excel can't do. 

You can't seriously run MCMC in Excel, for instance.
.
Hey I know some vba and sql and am learning python, but just for fun as I haven't found out how to apply it to my work yet (accountant). How do you apply python to politics?
I think it depends where you are starting from. From a reporting perspective, if things are not scheduled we still tend to use Excel to put things together just because it allows for a more use friendly front end for non quants.

For pyhton - there are a lot of great resources out there (notably learn python the hard way). If you have a grip on basic programming and want to learn the numeric libraries (eg numPy, SciPy etc) then i'd just see how far you can work you way through project euler using it.

As for sql. The only real way is to load up a database and start having a go at some examples.  Access is likely the easiest to get started on at home though is not a brilliantly easy way to learn!
Yeah I wasn't so much talking about serious analytics/modelling but there are a lot of analyst jobs that don't require it.
Yeah - serious, serious stuff has to be done somewhere else. You can't do r in excel for example - and that's where we do our high end forecast modelling and stats
It sounds it, but the hard part is coming up with the solution. The process itself basically goes

- Find the Number we want to multiply by on a sheet. 
- Assign that number to the Data
- Number * Current Revenue
- Make / Refresh Pivot Tables.


The Hard part is always the actual coming up with the solution. 
At some point you'll probably want to learn how to do vlookups. They definitely come in handy. There's a million online explanations for them. 
A lot of what I learned was from wanting to do something in excel and googling solutions. Usually I won't be able to find a complete solution, but I get a lot of pieces of how people are solving for a particular issue. Then I take those pieces and fit them together in what'ever I'm building. I often times look at my own previous work. "I know I did this before" and recycle my own solutions. 
Python's just a scripting language. If there's some data, Python can be used on it. The industry is irrelevant. I work in Media and a guy here uses Python for everything. I get similar results as him in VB, but he's teaching me Python and Linux so I can do stuff like him in a Linux environment 
