100% off Excel Macros Course on Udemy
That's awesome! How about the first course?
Cool man, I'll check it out :)  Can we review it if we take the free course?
Flair changed to advertisement 
Bookmarked, thanks!
Thanks for posting OP.  As a fellow advocate of the usefulness of macros/vba I hope more will unlock the power that is at the fingertips of nearly every PC out there in the business world.

Tried to set up a course in my community through the local school board, but they suggested there isn't enough interest.
Thanks! 
How long is this deal up for? I'm waiting for my Office 2013 package to come in the mail to upgrade.
About how long would the course take?
Wow, thats pretty neat! Thanks alot for this!
This is awesome of you, thanks. Will be looking at the courses today.
Thank you so much. Hugs and kisses.
Thanks :D
Thanks 
[deleted]
huge thanks! 
Just want to say thanks for this. I'll be sure to review and hopefully provide some useful feedback!
Very cool - you're awesome.
Do you have a similar course but for VBA? thanks!
Thanks for this. It's very generous of you!
This is awesome, I just started it! thanks
Well, it looks pretty basic. What are you going to expand next? I am looking for something more advanced :/
Sure, here's a free link to the first course: https://www.udemy.com/learnexcel/?couponCode=ExcelReddit

It's meant to be a basic introduction for new users, but I also plan on continuing to update it with new content such as popular excel functions, and other useful excel features. 
Yes you can. Honest reviews are very welcome.
Thank you.
That's weird... looking at it right now, it's Unsolved... Changing it back to Advert.
But was it visited though?:)
In Udemy, once you enroll in a course, you have full time access for the rest of your life... well, at least for the rest of Udemy's life...
I'm going to leave the coupon active forever, but you can enroll in the course without having office 2013.
A little more than an hour in it's current form. More content will be added regularly.
Awesome, glad to hear it.
Your welcome. All feedback is appreciated, thanks.
Not yet, but I'm planning to make one in the future.
The course is meant for people who are not already familiar with Excel Macros, or who have a very limited understanding of them. I'll be adding how create interactive macros. I'll also be adding various macros projects that will help students more fully realize what is possible with macros.

In the long-term, I plan on creating a course for advanced users. It will be a VBA course that focuses on Excel. I'll probably post a free code for that here too since this course got a positive reception. That's at least several months away, however. 
If you are still looking for something check out the ExcelVBAisFun YouTube channel. Goes from vba basics to more complex concepts in a number of videos segmented by topic. 
Thanks so much for this. So many schools aren't teaching excel now. It's becoming a problem for new college students 
Cheers.
I'd really appreciate it if you can add the subtitles to that first course. Just take your time. Thanks. :)
You are awesome /u/JohnnyMarcone. \m/
Nope haven't gotten a good opportunity to just sit down and start lol. Taking an excel class this semester so hopefully I'll get some practice and motivation in again
How much changes from 2010 to 2013?  My work is still running on 2010.  Is there enough difference between the two releases that I won't be able to take the course?
If I am enrolled and you add more content, will I be able to come back and take the new content?
Can't please everyone. This will be great and I am going to sign up tonight thanks again 
That's strange. Excel knowledge is more relevant now than ever before.
Certainly, I'll put that on my list of things to do. I didn't know subtitles were in such demand, others have requested the same thing. I think I'll make them standard on all my new courses. 
Good luck, good redditor!
You should be able to take the course just find using Excel 2010. There may be a few buttons moved around, but the majority of the content should apply to Excel 2010 as well. 
Yes, once you're enrolled you get access to the course and all it's content for life.
Yes but our schools spend all their money on testing. I wish the colleges would throw fits but until there is pressure it isn't going to change. So now college accounting classes have to teach students how to widen a column
it depends also on the language you will choose to put on subtitles. I think french would be better you know.
