Fun jobs that use primarily Excel
Any office job title that ends with "Analyst". 
I make dashboards for businesses. I LOVE what I do.

PM me for details 
Excel is the most widely used supply chain software in the world.


As a former management consultant you live in excel and communicate in powerpoint.  (For some really nasty data sets you get into access or sql, but rare)
I'm an Actuary. We like excel...
I design parts for spacecraft. Excel is in my top 3 most regularly used programs. 
The guy who makes graphs at PornHub
I like how this question about fun jobs in Excel still "unsolved"
Reporting/business analyst
I admin data for a political party. Lots of excel, access, sql, and more. If you took out the crazies, it would be the ideal job.
Civil Engineer. We don't trust many analysis software, so we make our own, in excel. 

Dont know if that counts as fun, but I enjoy turning spreadsheets into foolproof pseudosoftware 
I forecast a bunch of different things for a state Medicaid program (US public health insurance). Most of what I do involves maintaining an Excel model of the entire system. I love it!

*edited for horrific grammar
I'm a librarian, and I am tasked with providing usage stats for various reasons.  I can query the programs for some decent results (for most of the systems), but these reports aren't useful to the administration as is. Plus, admin is always needing some kind of projection for grant-writing or planning purposes.  
While this isn't a full time job, how me and my friends/colleague use excel certainly is interesting.  

We use excel as a way to display interesting statistics from video game esports event, the way we've managed to do it certainly is interesting. If anyone is interested I'll be sure to explain.

But to me personally, I don't find statistics and excel too entertaining/fun to work with
I do copyright administration for a record label, my work is about 80% in excel 
I work as an auditor at a financial institution and I use excel quite a bit. 
I am a sales data analyst for a financial services firm, and I would say 80% of my job involves excel. 20% is SQL.
any data analyst job. 
Data Analyst here.
Consulting intern here. Everyone uses Excel.
If you are good enough in Excel then YES you can find a better opportunity in your life. Learn Excel and another office products at least basic then your boss will love you much. http://www.excellovers.com/
Project manager
I'm a Digital Analyst for a social media company. Ton's of fun playing with data and making the world of data come to life in Excel.
Accounting
Recently promoted to Fiancial Analyst for this exact reason.
Supply chain analyst, can confirm. 
I love making dashboards
Tableau is rapidly becoming where it's at for a hybrid of both analysis and presentation in the biz. 
There's nothing like having duel monitors and having excel loaded on both of them. 
SOA or CAS?  
How hard are the first two exams?
Solvency II in the house :)
So cool! How did you you get that job!?
"I understand you want to make the presentation fit with our business, but not everything is best displayed as a bar chart."
Some reporting can be extremely tedious. I spent 6 months doing SEC Regulatory Reporting and it was way too detailed. I now do staff accounting and business analysis and I'm much better suited for it.
Tell me more? I'm a finance major (recently getting into excel) but I want to work in politics one way or another. 
Medicaid modeling represent.
time seriesszz?
And here I am playing with Medicare data all day.  
I'm interested in learning more about what you do! I'm sort of involved with some statistical analysis of esports events, and would love to hear about what others are doing. 
this is interesting.  where do you work (city or state), if you don't mind?  
East coast or west coast?
But do they really know how to use it
Try using MS Project, has many more capabilities than excel relating to PMs

What does a 'Digital Analyst' do?
I'm of University age, constantly harass all of my friends to get better at excel for this exact reason
I  have honestly no clue about finance, but I'm getting a lot of work done in excel at my current job, meaning i'm getting really good at it. 

You think it's worth looking into finance areas as well?
> Tableau

can you talk about tableau?
sounds interesting
There are many different analytics packages out there, and have been for a long time.  Eventually one of them might get dominance but Excel is far more versatile.  Most people in the supply chain aren't spending their time looking at big data analytics, they are doing the nuts and bolts of ERP/MRP and scheduling through data manipulation.


As long as an office suite, for now MS Office, in the future maybe google docs or something else controls the business desktop the analytic tool in that group is going to dominate.  I am not saying it should, I am just saying it has and will continue to.
> duel monitors

Fight!
[Or tri-monitor setup.. ](http://i.imgur.com/jgStuqa.jpg)
I beg to differ sir. There is nothing like having dual monitors with excel on both and a second computer running excel as well. (That's three screens of excel for those at home.)
SOA - Life Insurance.
All of the exams are extremely difficult. The first two prelims though, are not as challenging as the final three. Nothing impossible though. [Actuarial Outpost](http://www.actuarialoutpost.com) is a good resource.
Got worried for a sec that someone from my company found my username. But apparently you are European and your connection to S2 makes sense now...
I'm a mechanical engineer. I started on jet engines out of college, went back and got my masters,  then transfered to the space division. It's cool, but lot nearly as glamorous as it sounds. There's an insane amount of paperwork involved!
[Proceed with caution](http://www.vice.com/read/the-cold-war-of-porn)
We have a vendor do most of the time series work, actually :( That's sort of my white whale, adding time series/simulation aspects and doing it internally.
Its for a relatively undeveloped esport game, Call Of Duty (for console). Even when there was interest from Sony sponsoring tournaments, and when there was prize pools from $10,000 to 1 million USD, there was never a way for people to find out the stats of their favourite team and players. Occasionally a news organization would find out the combined kills for a team, but it was never something that was taken seriously.  

On an IRC we had the idea of using Google Docs to display the score and kills of a team after every match. It didn't take long before it caught on and pro players in the scene started tweeting about it (the majority of the scene is based on twitter). We quickly realized that Google Docs could not handle an influx of 3,000 users and an upgrade was needed. 

At this time we got a bit of luck, one of the co founds was actually did statistical analysis as a job and was far better with spreadsheets than we ever were. Our forumals were at best =if, and =sum, nothing too complex. His spreadsheet included what, at the time, was groundbreaking for a lot of us. Sumifs, Vlookup, and more VB and macros than we knew what to do with. 

With that, we had a base to start on and started advertising through twitter, this is where we got real success (don't mean to advertise, but it is @CoD_Stats if anyone is interested).  

We used Excel Online for a long time to show the stats, however that has a lot of limitations. The file size was a pain to work with, even after we'd run macros to replace all formulas with just the raw data, images and other aspects would quickly nudge it over.  While we do plan on moving away from Excel in the near future, we have made small improvements like converting the spreadsheet to html/css. If you want to view it, you can here http://codcompstats.com/xgames2015.html (not a front end developer, so advice on making that a bit more attractive would be appreciated :P). That was from X Games 2015, where there was a Call Of Duty tournament alongside the sports that were there.
PMed you!
West 
Hahahahahahahaha no



Try using primavera. Good god, what a monster. 
I analyze schedules for a living... 

Fuck Project. Learn Primavera P6.
Depending on the size of the project but for manipulating not data and creating schedules I think excel is champ over project for small stuff
Tap API's for their sweet, sweet data nectar and create dashboards and provide insights based on findings.

It's data analysis with a specialization in utilizing and working with the API's provided from digital content providers like Facebook, Google, Twitch, Twitter, FitBit, Snapchat, anything that has an API
Can't be understated.  Working knowledge of pivot tables, lookups, etc is more important than any A you get in a college course.
That's like asking if it's worth looking into studying Law areas, or physics areas, or whatever other hard specialized skill people learn in University. It's payoff is high, but there's a large time/effort investment.
I recently used it for a project in college. It's amaaaaaaaazing. It basically lets you work with data sets that excel couldn't even almost handle to build visualisations, dashboards and reports on the underlying data.

It look me about a week of playing around with it before I really got to grips with it but it's hugely powerful if you have a large amount of data and it's easy as piss to manipulate stuff in it if you're used to large data manipulation in the likes of Excel or Access.

Got to [here](http://www.tableau.com/) and download the trial. Be advised you'd need to have something you actually want to work on with it in order to get anything out of it.
Haha I guess this is proof im a math major.
how can i convince them to give me a third monitor?

edit: did not see the post two posts down
God I'm so jelly. I've got two fairly large monitors though...
Appreciate the honesty. Did you have a background in Maths? I've looked at some P sample questions and a fair number of them are extensions of what i came across studying stats in University, but even so I can tell there's a lot of work that goes into practicing. It's just with my present schedule I have some evening hours I allot to professional development, I'm wondering whether it's worth it.
Well the actuarial world is very small so I wouldn't be surprised! :)
How hands-on are you? I'm a mechE student who has some interest in space, but I want to work in R&D in a fairly hands-on position, which I know is extremely rare in any industry, so I'm not sure if I should angle for doing that in the aerospace field or search somewhere else for that sort of position. 
How thoroughly do you trust Excel, and do you run into rounding issues with the limited amount of significant digits it supports? It just makes me think of the floating point calculation issues they blamed some major financial losses on a few years back.
There will be a day when this link will turn purple. Today is not that day.
so what kind of forecasts are they..? like financial DCF types?
API juice - yum
When I taught statistics and scientific  methods i made my students learn learn vlookups. Many said it was the most valuable thing they learned in the course.
[deleted]
indeed!! skills matter
I'd be totally fine with 2, 3 is convenient sometimes but not necessary.. It is nice having my far left dedicated to email though.  
B.A. in Math in college. Expect to spend 200-300 hours studying for each exam. The samples tend to be far more straightforward than the actual exam. Exams have tough questions with not that much time. I breezed through the first four and am now stuck on the last one :(. Grab the ACTEX manual for P online somewhere and give it a shot. It's a good career.
Not very. I'd say I'm at my desk 90% of the time. I get to go down to the lab to watch tests, and we'll sometimes head down to NASA or whoever the customer is. That's the nature of a large company though. The materials guys are probably more hands on than anyone else. 

From the other engineers I know, it seems like the smaller the company, the more hands on you get to be. 
For mechanical fits, I rarely go past 1e-3 in. venturing to 1e-4 in. for interference fits. For stresses, I typically am only in the 1e-2 region. On top of that, analyses are conservative and we use some pretty big factors of safety (as far as flying things are concerned). 
It's vice, it's legit.
No nothing that complicated really. It's mostly a bunch of different rules that our internal "businesses" follow combined with a lot of exponential smoothing of various payments/program costs.
I spent time doing nothing but excel and ppt today.  Living the dream!
It doesn't have to be a life goal, but a couple years of using Excel won't hurt anything. Especially if you have SQL, ETL and other BI experience. Excel makes life easier sometimes. 
I managed to escape the trap after 9months and jump into a recently vacated Business Intelligence developer role, but I had some SQL knowledge from before. 

No regrets.
how do i CONVINCE THEM

is it hard to setup?

and is it useful? i feel like i could use 4-10 monitors and i would be 10 times smarter...
I'm going to give it a shot. Nothing worth while ever came easy.
Heh, that's the hard part.  My manager has both an understanding of the work I do (Excel, Access, and generally dealing with data all day) and has 3 monitors himself, so convincing him wasn't hard.  I actually only requested 2, but he gave me a third anyway.

It makes it easier too, when the company is huge and very profitable, and your manager has a lot of political clout.

Other than that, you're on your own to sell them on the idea of productivity - it certainly makes it easier to do stuff with that setup vs. the dual 19" 4:3 monitors I had before then.
