Free self-paced course on Excel VBA programming starting in early August
As one of the people who enrolled and completed this course I can tell you it is worth every minute of your time. I had very little programming experience so I found the course invaluable. 

You will learn about variables, sub procedures, functions, loops and if structures and finally arrays and forms. 

The course is very easy to start with and wont take too much time to complete however it gets harder by about week 7 or 8 and it did challenge me quite a lot towards the end. 

Even though there is a book that would go into more advanced topics I know myself that I wont pick it up to read it but if there is a follow up course to this then I would be very interested. 

I think what Prof Nissenson and his team did with this course by making it available as a self paced course is incredibly generous and would help a lot of people in the future so thank you so much for the interesting and educational course. I would love to see more courses like that in the future. 

Ps. please support Cal Poly Pomona by purchasing the course material, its 20 dollars and will go towards covering the costs of preparing the course so hopefully we can get another one in the near future. 

TLDR: great course, enrol now and please donate or purchase the optional 20 dollar course material if you would like to support this course. 
Thank you for this. I am definitely interested but my question do I have to watch out for an enrollment period for the self-paced course or will it just be open content?
/u/PaulNissenson,  Do you mind if I promote this in my organization where I work?  It would be ~100 people that use Excel on a daily basis, most of which have little to no understanding of VBA.
I'm not sure what I'm doing wrong, but I don't see the Enroll (or Unenroll) button.
I think the remindme bot has been blocked in this sub or is malfunctioning alltogether.
This it's great! Really looking forward to it. Thank you.
I enrolled last time. Lacking any VBA/programming skills, I learned quite a lot. I'm in no way a VBA ninja now, but can manage most basic things and can read (and most of the time understand ) code from others, which is great for a free 8 week course. 
I'm going to have to make time for this.
I participated in this course and even had some constructive critcism towards misclicking and testing. Sadly because I messed up my schedule and because for a european the deadlines were weird I messed up. Didn't finish, but that is all my fault ofc.

All in all, this was a thorough course as far as I could follow, although I would wish for some earlier R1C1 adressing in the course because of "cells(x;y)" and other ways of adressing cells indirectly.

I refreshed a lot of things in this, nothing really new, but that was not my goal. I used it to freshen up on things, on how to teach VBA to beginners. 

Also the videos were good, but MAN liven them up a bit, dry as a bone.

tl;dr

Good course, if you have the time, do it. Try to not cheat.

Here are some suggestions for improvement from my POV:

- Try to make the testtaking as airtight as possible
- Maybe use R1C1 adressing earlier in the course?
- Make the videos a little bit more interesting (my adhd kicked in)
Any update on this?
Awesome, thank you!
awesome! thanks. 

i'm so glad about the self-paced course b/c I signed up for the class a few months ago and missed the first exam and felt deterred to keep going b/c I missed it. :(

Can't wait to start the self paced one though.
!RemindMe 23 days

I have about 2 years of programming experience so know the basics, but don't know VBA at all. Is this the right course for me?
!RemindMe 25 days
Dude this looks awesome!  I am pretty good with Excel but have been looking for a course like this.  I'm not one for learning out of the text and these types of formats are great for someone like me.  Thank you so much for posting this as I know it will be an invaluable addition to my skills!  I'd buy you a beer if you were in Vancouver, Canada!
There is no suscribe or unsuscribe button that i can see.
/u/PaulNissenson , will you please make another post when enrollment becomes available?

Thanks.
This is awesome.  One of my goals for this year is to start learning VBA.
Tagging this for later. Thank you so much!
I'll be signing up for this, interesting enough Cal Poly Pomona is on my list to transfer one day for Software engineering or UCI, cool.
Took and completed this course and loved it. Does Cal offer any other courses similar to this?  I would love to learn more about access and even a more advanced VBA course
I am a heavy Excel user, but I need to systematize more my work. Also, I need to learn to take advantage of its the database features, and how to make self contained files (with menu navigation, etc). I was involved with Access before, but for me Excel is more flexible.
!RemindMe 18 days


any update on this?
Is this course still suitable for someone running Excel for Mac? This may seem like a silly question, but so many complex things I've learned on Excel for Windows have been vastly different and even more complicated when attempting them on Mac.

!RemindMe 2 days
!RemindMe 25 days
!RemindMe 23 days
!RemindMe 23 days
Can I ask why you insist on using .Select???  There is literally no reason to use this.  I would highly recommend teaching users to directly assign to the value, as opposed to ActiveCell.


!RemindMe 23 Days
!RemindMe 23 days
!RemindMe 23 Days
!RemindMe 23 Days
!RemindMe 23 days
!RemindMe 23 days
Thank you for this!

I am one of the 85% who dropped - in fact, I was late on the quiz on the first week and never made it back.

I am still very interested. Can I try again?
!RemindMe 25 days
!RemindMe 23 days
!RemindMe 25 days
!RemindMe 23 days
!RemindMe 25 days
!RemindMe 23 days
!RemindMe 23 days
!RemindMe 23 days
!Remindme 25 days
!RemindMe 23 days
Thanks for the nice feedback.

Those people who haven't taken the course might be confused by the 20 dollar course material comment. It is 100% free to take the course and learn the content. However, the university is selling a package of supplementary materials that consists of a complete set of lecture notes, a PDF of the PowerPoint slides in the videos, the VBA code shown in the videos, and a 2-page reference guide. I want to emphasize that you do not need to purchase the materials to do well in the course. It is just a mechanism to recoup the costs associated with the course.
There will be no enrollment period. You can enroll in the course whenever you like and take as much time as needed to work through the material -- there will be no due dates.
Please do.
That button is disabled at the moment because the original enrollment period ended back in April. The enrollment button will reappear by August 7.
Yeah that bot hasn't been working for a few weeks at least.
Gotta start somewhere. :)
All good suggestions. 

- By "airtight" do you mean it was easy to cheat? If so, you are correct, but this is a problem with all online courses.

- I didn't want to bombard the students with too much information, so I made a decision to go with the other style of referencing which I feel students would be more comfortable with.

- I intentionally speak a little slowly in the videos because I want to allow non-native English speakers to be able to understand me better. By the way, I did a survey at the end of the course and asked for students' opinion about the length of the videos:

Way too long: 3%

A little too long: 21%

Just the right amount of time: 71%

A little too short: 5%

Way too short: less than 1%

Everything should be ready by August 7.
The course is open now.
Keep at it!
Yup. You should do well in this course. I suggest speeding up the videos to 1.5x speed or it may get a little boring.
At Granville Island brewery? :)
It will appear by August 7.
Okay. I will make a short post and link back to this thread.
And I went to UCI for my undergrad and grad education. :)
This was the first MOOC offered by Cal Poly Pomona. We are in preliminary discussions for developing other courses, but they take a long time to create.
Learning VBA definitely will give you a powerful tool to tackle Excel spreadsheets.
Yes, you can use Excel 2011 for Mac. However, it might be easier to use Excel 2007, 2010, or 2013 for Windows. Throughout the course I point out key differences between the two versions.
I agree.

I use .Select as a crutch at the beginning of the course because it is easier to visualize selecting a cell before assigning a value into it (just like clicking on a cell before typing a value). Later in the course I recommend using .Value instead of .Select because it makes code more efficient.
Yes. You can sign up as many times as you like after August 7.
Fantastic! Thanks for the heads up, this will be a useful course to take.
Thanks!
This is what I was looking for! I'll need to set a reminder for August 7th then...
The slow speaking makes sense and is really good for allowing people to really thing through things as you are speaking.  Personally I just put the videos on 1.5x speed and it was perfect.

Dude I work three blocks away from there!
Awesome, I hope to get in, one day.
I'm sure many people put the videos on 1.5-2x speed. Across the world I will be known as the chipmunk instructor.
Very jealous. Beautiful city, nice brewery.

I have some in-laws from that city... hope to make it back up there in the next few years.
Both are fine schools. Very different feel to the classes and campus though. You will get a lot more one-on-one attention at Cal Poly Pomona, but UCI offers a lot of great research opportunities.
Oh my god why didn't I think of that?  I figured you speak clearly and slowly for a reason, but by the third or fourth video where it's like, 

>The variable x in the subroutine corresponds to a in the procedure.  The variable y in the subroutine corresponds to variable b in the procedure. The variable b in the subroutine corresponds to variable m in the procedure. The variable c in the subroutine corresponds to variable n in the procedure.

I was like oh my god make it stop.

Anyway everyone with an interest in but no knowledge of VBA should totally take this course. I've started a bunch of 'intro to VBA' type of online things but nothing really clicked for me till this one. Very clearly presented, well-ordered, and generally a great intro to the topic.  Thanks!


A guy like you could get a job in this town in ten seconds flat.  Seeing as you...you know...actually have skills.  This is the most fake it till you make it town I have ever seen.
I'm sure some of the videos would be very tedious for anyone who is familiar with programming. :)
I'm pretty happy with my position at Cal Poly Pomona. It's actually my dream job.  :)
That is awesome dude. You seem like a rad guy. Youre ever up here we will bury a few taster platters at Granville Island.
Now hopeyesperanza has to follow through with his promise. Send proof!
http://i.imgur.com/DFjIFdr.jpg

I will deliver!
Lol. I was talking about your statement about buying a beer for Paul not just yourself! So selfish. It does look like a tasty beer, enjoy!
