Why does Excel always open in the same window?
Windows 7+ allows you to open a new instance if you SHIFT + CLICK on the icon in your task bar.

[deleted]
For Office 2010 and before, a work around that I use is to open a new instance of excel. I do this by going to the start menu, finding the Run command and typing in excel.exe. If you want to open a new file in this instance I think you have to open through excel, not by clicking it through the folder directory.
I've had a registry edit that I used to use before I upgraded to Office 2013 that worked pretty well. It broke some DDE stuff but overall worked fairly well for me. You might have to adjust the path if you're using a different version of Office. No guarantees this won't make your computer blow up.

http://pastebin.com/bCPfjQJw
I feel your pain... I had the exact same issue but I found a 'work-around' as follows:

You already have one spreadsheet open, to open another (and so on) in a separate window open Excel (as in a blank new project) select the file you wanted to open from within that window and TaDa... You now have two Excel windows open.

Hope this helps.
There is some sort of patch or something of the sort that you can do to make it behave the way you want. Consult your IT department on how to fix it. My last job had a simple optional update to fix it, where my current one told me to just use the work around because they don't want to make my computer different than the others. Its all up to them.
I use excel launcher with Excel 2007 to fix this. Freeware.
Well that helps a bit. I've been right clicking and clicking open a new instance.
Ya it's fixed in 2013, 2010 is 1 window only. 
I believe it is 2010.
Middle-click (press down on the scroll wheel) on Excel in the task bar to open a new instance.
Right click the existing excel item on the task bar and select to open Excel.  
It'll open a new window.  
Then Drag and drop the file you want to open onto this window.
Or add the program to your taskbar, right click on icon, click Microsoft Excel 2010.
>Personal.whatever is locked
But I don't think you're able to copy and paste (or anything similar) between the two windows.
I type excel into the search/run bar, myself.  
I went from 10 to 13. This feature made a big difference, and made it a lot easier to work in multiple books.
2013 is so much better at this.  With 2010 even when you do get separate windows they don't really share data properly.  Excel 2013 does this seamlessly.  
This is what I do. Works every time 
You can still copy and paste, it just doesn't keep the formatting properly.
Ya this is my work computer. I should be grateful that I have Windows 7. My boss's computer still has Windows XP.

