What do you do, and how much do you make?
>I'm wondering this mainly because I'm not making much and I would like to know how much I could make elsewhere

this is kind of like asking, "people that use knives, what do you do and how much do you make?" You're going to get the guy that cuts the steak at a burrito place and you're going to get neurosurgeons. Excel is just a tool - knowing what questions to ask and what to do with the answers are far more important, and valuable, than being able to use the tool itself. A hedge fund manager can make $10 million a year with nothing more advanced than vlookups - an analyst at a small business might be writing fat macros for 20 bucks an hour. Being able to use excel functions is a commodity... People won't pay you bags of money for things they can google. 

So, if you want to make more money, look for a new job, and emphasize the things above that matter. "Creating a workbook" doesn't matter - developing a management tool that aligns performance and incentives does. "Creating tables" doesn't matter - identifying key performance metrics and collaborating the operations leaders to get the right data does. 

Your value isn't in your excel knowledge, as much as Gertrude's incompetence at the office might make you think. Your value is in solving business problems. That's the job you need to find. 
I change the flair on posts in /r/excel to `discussion`.
I recently got hired as a Sales Operations Analyst and make $50k/year. My job is 80% Salesfore.com and 20% Excel. I mainly use Excel to work the reports I get from Salesforce.. Lots of VLOOKUP, Index match, COUNTIF, PivotTables. My Excel skills are pretty basic so I'm taking courses online through work to help out. 
I am a supply chain executive for a Fortune 500 company. I still use excel to do a lot of analytics and build business justification. Excel is probably down to 20% of my job hands on with excel now but i used to do a lot more.  I am now ~$200k/yr.
Hey it sounds like you've done some great work for you company. 

I think you might find people are reluctant to share their salary and/or any hints about their actual work location.
I'm an accountant, with a focus on tax. There hasn't been a day in my career where Excel hasn't been open at least half the day. I don't do anything too exotic - use a lot of basic excel functions, lots of sumif/sumifs, ifs, index/match, and pivot tables. 

I make somewhere between $0 and $500k. 
I work as a Reporting Analyst (used to be called MIS Analysts) for an insurance company.  I make just over $70k.  I spent years making reports in Excel based on Access queries (mostly Pivot Tables).  Recently I've been studying Power Pivot and DAX and that has quickly taken over all my reports.
I'm the excel guy in the office. I work at a small advisory firm And was kept on after an internship purely because I was using excel to automate a lot of their work. It's about 95% of my job. I started out just working under our accountant, but I now do data analysis for Business Development (using salesforce as well) and help with projects for clients (working with someone who understands what the goal is), as well as document automation and creating workflows for people. I've also made a few simple office plugins and am working on 2 more currently.

I make $15/hour
Staff accountant.  I use lots of index/match, a few array formulas, sumproduct, lots of tables, and a few pivot tables.  Basically I look over outdated processes people use to turn SAP data into a report for management, note the hours they spend doing it each month, and replace it with a 5 minute mostly-automatic process.  Among other things.  I make around 50k.  Thankfully so far I've only freed up time for people and haven't made anyone redundant, but i hear about it happening from others that do what I do.
I'm a purchasing agent. I use excel and access to build tables of data that I manipulate with basic formulas. 

I can use excel to show my managers how many inventory dollars we have in certain product lines or sales volumes in certain months. 

I don't do anything too fancy but I always love it when I teach my boss's new spreadsheet tricks.

I make between $50-60K USD.
VB analyst/developer

65k (USD)
I'm a Project Controls intern with a company contracted by the Department of Energy to remediate and decommission a Cold War era uranium enrichment plant. My functional area integrates cost, schedule, and scope through a system called earned value management. I use pivot tables, index/match, vlookups, and simple macros when analyzing planned and actual cost data. 
I do tech support for a small Managed Service Provider. We provide remote technical support for around 25 businesses, with an average of 15 PC's each.

I use any tool at my disposal, whether that's Excel, Access, Notepad++, Oracle, MSSQL, Labtech, HP Open View, a DOS based TELNET/SSH client (like Putty), or any other program I need to use... depending on what my customer needs.

I make around $40k.
Clinical analyst for a health care system.  I pull data on length of stay, readmit rates, discharge dispositions, etc for al populations, but mostly focused on Medicare.  Over $50K
I run the food safety program for a large multinational restaurant company.  I use excel mainly as a reporting tool to analyze food safety audits and track projects.  I make $75k plus bonus. 
Industrial Instrumentation Engineering Technologist. Mainly using Excel to manipulate data coming out of various systems before pumping it into new systems.  Also: budgeting,  tracking, predictive maintenance analysis. Pay is preet-ay, preet-ay good. 
I make USD $30k-ish/year and work in the public sector paying welfare.

Because of our ridiculously outdated systems from the 90s, I have to place hundreds or thousands of items of work on to 70 odd shared spreadsheets that workers go through. I run reports on these lists: How many items people have done, how many are left to do, how many are urgent, all sorts of things.

To expedite this process we have various excel tools that open all spreadsheets one at a time and query these details for us. It usually takes 8 minutes to go through all of them, however we use shortcuts, like skipping files if the filedatetime hasn't changed since the last run.

We have SQL that queries the databases of those aforementioned outdated systems and pulls wanted data into spreadsheets that we can work with.

We have to archive every file every week, so I created a simple tool that just goes through and creates a copy in each respective Archive folder labelled "20150724 Filename.xlsx" or something like that. Takes barely 10 seconds to archive everything that way. Before we were going through and copy/pasting and renaming every file individually.

I rebuilt one of our tools that would take almost 10 minutes to run through all our spreadsheets and cut its average running time down to 2.5 minutes (with the filedatetime check and other optimisations).

My current goal is automation. Every list we have to run some formulas against and heavily format so the data are actually presentable. This is mindless work that could be automated. But doing this for 70 odd spreadsheets is a massive task and will take me a while. I rarely get opportunities to work on this however.

We also have to categorise emails that come into a shared outlook inbox. A colleague of mine created a tool that extracts particular emails based on categories and flags, searches the subject/body for client numbers, and arranges them into a spreadsheet to be worked on by people without access to that shared inbox. It copies all the emails into a folder and hyperlinks them in the spreadsheet. It's very well done.

Basically, we have to create a lot of tools that most definitely would be better in another program (damn I wish they'd give us access to Access), but we do the best we can and create some pretty unique and advanced macros in the process, with the goal of just making our jobs easier and hopefully more redundant (we don't lose our job, we just go do something else in the business)
The CEO of the company where I work is in currently #4 in Billionaires Forbes list.
We sell Clothes. I work on Payroll. I do £32K
I manage meta-data for a music publication company. Basically we buy up catalogues of music (50k tracks at a time) and I organize them in excel sheets, do Python and Bash programming to handle the files and clean up all meta-data to conform to iTunes etc. standards.

First job out of college, I make about 30-40k usd.

Lots of.. VLOOKUP, if formulas and all sorts of business to make the terrible meta-data we get in to look semi-correct.
Key Account Manager at a midsized business ($200 millionish.)

I hybrid as an analyst for my company since nobody can use Excel except one of the accountants, so if there are any reports that need to be done I end up doing them. It actually takes away from what I'm supposed to be doing, but is still crucial for the company.  It's mostly vlookup, pivot tables, and sumif.

I make $90k.
I do digital marketing for an agency.  My level (lower than a manager) is between $60 and 75k (slightly higher than average due to location/cost of living).  I use excel as a way to build, organize, analyze and report on my work.  It takes up about 70% of my day.
I just took a job as a Manager of Financial Analysis for a manufacturing plant.  Pay is $130k plus benefits (smallish bonus, 401k, PTO, etc.)  Company pays bulk of medical insurance.  I am responsible for budgeting, forecasting, and analyzing the financial data to identify risks, potential cost savings, etc.  I am part of the leadership team responsible for running and improving the plant (highest finance position locally).

The job I left paid $100k.  I did financial analysis, workflow costing, and pricing.
What I do: 
- Public administration (sick pay) in Norway where also a small part of my job is IT / admin work

How much I make:
- 56.200 USD anually

What I use Excel for:
- As a case worker: To calculate users income, how much sick pay should be payed to various employers and making letters to users explaining the decision making process. Calculate if the user has the criteria to recieve sick pay and so on.
- For my IT position: Keeping track of who has access to our systems, what kind of systems they have access to, what kind of documents they can see in our archives, if they can work on cases that involves family of employees and when these have to be revised, and so on.

Excel is a small part of my job. Maybe 30 minutes per week, but it saves me hours every week.
Business Modeller at Big 4 accounting firm.

110k as a manager (6 years exp)

Not great but it's decent
>What do you do?

I am: A Pre-Business major student, Director of Campus life in Student Government for school, Shift manager at Regional Sandwich Chain.

>What do you make?

Student ~  -$20,000/ year (yes negative)  |  Director 5,000/ year stipend  | Shift Manager 9.00/hour + tips.

We do all of our daily, weekly, monthly paperwork on excel sheets with formulas and functions at the sub shop. I've corrected whoever it is who makes the spreadsheets a few times now and also made my own sheet to calculate how much bread needs to be baked every day.

On campus I use excel to make sure my department is staying within budget on our events, and also breakdown the cost of our events on a per student basis for the student government senators to see and make sure we aren't spending too much (Checks and balances.)

I became MOS Certified my Junior Year of High School.
This.

Before christmas my Excel skills consisted of =A1+B1-C1.

I was promoted around this time and just started googling, youtubing, reading this forum and just trying out buttons to see what they did. Now, I'm building some pretty wicked models and tools. They're all fairly simply, some times I use a tiny bit of vba (usually to program simple buttons), some times the formulas are a bit more complex.

Pivot tables are a godsend. Honestly, compared to most people in here I'm not very good with Excel. But I am very, very good at using what I know (judging by my results anyway).

A pivot table is about the easiest thing in the world to master, but knowing what data to take from the systems, how to combine it, how to read and present it and how to act on it. Well, that's a different skill set.  
And how much do you get paid?
And here I am working at salesforce using tons of google sheets.
Woah, you sound like someone I work with. I work in commissions as a financial analyst and work closely with the sales ops folks. 
But how much of the value you provide for your salary is due to your knowledge of Excel as distinct from your knowledge of logistics? I suspect you'd still be worth your salary if you switched to the Google Docs spreadsheet.
[deleted]
 Thank you!

I'll edit the post: no need to be as specific as me, of course.
Fellow tax guy here. I also make between $0 and $500,000.
Start applying to other companies. You're worth way more. We hire people starting at $55k and all they have are degrees and we teach all those skills on the job. Good luck.

I live in LA in case someone makes a comment about regional variations. 
Note I've been doing pretty much the same thing in different roles and titles for the same company for a decade, for much of which I was making half or less what I do now.
I work in project controls and I shuddered when I read earned value management.
He gets paid in alcohol and x-rated material.
What?! Do tell! How come Google Sheets instead of Excel?
What state are you in?
I have no doubt I could get up to speed in a different system like google docs and they might solve the magic of live collaboration I think that is still up in the air. I am old enough to remember lotus 123 and Quattro pro too.  Correct at this point in my career I am probably not going to switch professionally and R and matlab are my recreational software interests at this point.


Because my background is 3 engineering degrees and heavy analytics I still do a fair amount of the statistical evaluation. I've never been a big macro or vba guy but I do a lot of xlookup, index/match, variation on sumifs and stats.
Communication is key.  How does your work translate to and support the overall business strategy?  What is your impact?  And, while you are at that don't forget about your personal branding.  Who are you and what do you bring to the table?  You can't just be a data and analytics person or you will be there forever.


One of the key differentiators among more junior staff is those that understand the difference between data and information.  Everyone has data and with so many systems and internet of things and interconnectivity is only getting to be more.  But how that data can be used for information on how to improve things is key.
Sounds like a pretty sweet gig!!
Well O don't actually have a degree. It's a temporary position during a gap year. I leave for community college in like 2 weeks at which point I'm moving to part time and I'll ask for a raise (in $/h not total obv) which they'll probably give me. Mostly what I'm getting out of it is connections and a good rec letter when I try to transfer out of community college to a nice 4 year.
I'm new to the concept, why "shudder"? I know a lot of people think it is a waste of time and money, and other people think it guarantees project success. 
This is semi-true.  
  
The shipments of Guinness have been arriving every afternoon as expected - but I have yet to receive any x-rated material - colour me disappointed...
Google apps(docs, sheets, sites, ect.) are used company wide because of how easy it is for sharing. Important document for everyone to read? People who worked on whatever feature can write up and continuously update a doc with all the important stuff, and everyone else can get read access. Basically very quick sharing of information.

*of course, that's for internal use only though. releasae docs and updates are updated on official docs pages.
Sunshine state. 
I don't know, 99.99% of the planet earns in that same bracket too.
Shush-you.

Get back in the basement, peasant.
That's what Reddit is for....unlimited and new content daily for all of your nsfw needs.
Microsoft has the same sharing/collaboration features with OneDrive/Office Online. It's free and you can open or edit excel files in the browser or open with with the desktop application.
Consumer OneDrive is free. Organizations have to use OneDrive for Business which has a licensing fee. $5 US per user per month I believe to license it as a stand-alone product. Cheaper if you go for the whole Office 365 package, but that comes with SharePoint which much better for collaboration.

On that note, I'm an IT Research Analyst and I spend about a third of my time in Excel building Excel Tools for our clients. Generally things like maturity assessments, ROI calculators, decision tools, and that kind of thing.
I understand that, I could have rephrased my comment better. What I was trying to say is Microsoft offers similar free and paid services as Google's. But they have the benefit of using Excel instead of "sheets".
