I learned how to VLOOKUP with two variable criteria and thought I'd share
[Here's a blog post](http://blog.contextures.com/archives/2012/07/12/check-multiple-criteria-with-excel-index-and-match/) with a more detailed breakdown if anyone wants to take a look. 

Also, OP, you might want to mention that this needs to be entered as an array formula with CTRL + SHIFT + ENTER.
You can do the same with sumproduct and not have to enter it as an array formula. The link explains this pretty well.

http://www.xldynamic.com/source/xld.SUMPRODUCT.html
And you can continue adding "factors" to the second argument of the MATCH function to have more than two criteria if you want.

And if you you use addition instead of multiplication, it mimics  boolean OR instead of AND.
Misleading title if there ever was one.. love this technique though
Oh my goodness this is exactly what I've been looking for to help automate a particular soul-sucking data audit task for a client (large bank). Thank you!!
Same result with different syntax:

    ={NDEX(A1:G27, MATCH(A1:A27&B1:B27, L7&M7, 0))}
I got this as an answer to my question a month ago. And It was over satisfying. 
Or you can just use sumproduct()...
Or you can keep it simple and decipherable and concatenate your variables.
So I did this for a spreadsheet at work once, and it blew out the file size massively. We're talking 150KB to 24MB. Has anyone else found that using this technique?
Great discovery!

INDEX-MATCH is more capable, faster, and more flexible than VLOOKUP and HLOOKUP. As far as I know, it's better in every single way.

INDEX-MATCH and SUMPRODUCT are both a bit tricky to learn, but once you do, you never need to use the LOOKUP functions again.

As others have mentioned, you can use SUMPRODUCT to use multiple criteria without using an array formula. You can even tuck your multi-criteria MATCH function into a SUMPRODUCT function and it will work without entering it as an array formula.

I'm on mobile now, so I can't test, but I *think* you could even just wrap a SUMPRODUCT function around your existing formula and it would work the same without being entered as an array formula.

=SUMPRODUCT(INDEX(A1:G27, MATCH(1, (A1:A27=L7)*(B1:B27=M7), 0), 5))
Thanks OP
I used to concatenate two columns with factors into one and search with that either in vlookup or countif (in case I just needed to find what combination is missing)
TIL control+shift+enter, thanks.
sumproduct was the most amazing thing when I first found out about it. Pre "-ifs" this made me feel like a data GOD! hahaa. ahhh, good times...
Isn't it slightly different though? What op is talking about is a lookup whereas sumproduct would be used for multi variable count/sum?
Wow this is awesome! I never know about this. Thanks!
Can you give an example formula demonstrating this? I read that site top to bottom but I still don't understand how you do a lookup with sumproduct.
Yeah I thought about putting VLOOKUP in quotes but I second guessed myself.
You're welcome, friend!
How does this code bring back a result from a specific column without referencing said column? 
I've never noticed such a bump. Maybe the formula got copied or autofilled to a very big range?
Only for Array formulas. Has no effect on regular formulas.
Oh. Ohhhh. OHHHHHHHHHH! I'd upvote you over and over if I could.
You can do lookups with sumproduct that match as many conditions as you like.  This section of the link I posted earlier goes into detail how to do it. 

http://www.xldynamic.com/source/xld.SUMPRODUCT.html#new
You're right, I've made a mistake, the first argument of INDEX is wrong. It should be something like

    ={INDEX(E1:E27, MATCH(A1:A27&B1:B27, L7&M7, 0))}

Where column E is the one you want to retrive the result from.
It is autofilled, but only in a roughly 50x10 range. I think the issue is that the range it's looking up (the (A1:A27=L7)*(B1:B27=M7) bit) is around 1100 rows, and every cells essentially computes two lots of 1100x15 arrays as part of the lookup. That's current hypothesis anyway. Sumproduct might help.
Hahaha. Here, take mine instead. 
I see what you mean but it's more of a multiple variable SUMIF than a lookup, i.e. it returns a count or sum depending on multiple variables not just returning a single corresponding value. Useful, but I also personally don't mind doing an array SUMIF with AND and OR functions within instead. Would give sumproduct a go next time tho and compare.
Doing a large array formula in a lot of cells would explain slow calculations, but not large file size. SUMPRODUCT will still lead to slow calculation when working with large arrays.

Does the file size shrink back down if you copy all the cells with the formula (the 50x10 area) and paste values over the formulas? Make sure you save a backup first if you are worried about losing the formulas.
Correct me if I'm wrong, but couldn't you just use SUMIFS? 

Also, to add onto what you were saying, it isn't a substitute for the lookup, since it can't return text 
I'll have to try it on Monday and see if that fixes it. It's not a huge issue, as it lives on the server anyway, doesn't need to be emailed. Just curious.
You can for a lot of things, however with SUMPRODUCT you can use formulas in your criteria. Also, you can match bith Horizontal and vertical conditions at the same time. 

If you don't need either of these though, SUMIFS will calculate faster. It also lets you use wildcard characters when matching text which can be pretty useful.
I'm guessing your company's servers aren't like mine. A <1MB file loads in a couple seconds and 25 MB would probably take at least 90 seconds. I blame the antivirus and IT won't do anything about it. I'm always trying to keep my files as small as possible.
