Font smoothing on Excel for Mac 2016 (non-Retina) is awful. Please go and upvote the attached link for visibility. Have had no luck on the Office Mac forums.
[deleted]
Don't tell me what to upvote! 
In what aspect does Excel handle text as pixels in opposition to vector so that smoothing could be applied?
Might as well throw in my ¢2. [This](http://i.imgur.com/okBmWwI.jpg) is what font rendering looks like on my machine. Late 2013 Mac Pro with a 27" Thunderbolt display. In this case it seems to be especially bad when I'm opening spreadsheets created in previous versions of Excel. 
I didn't notice an issue on my 2010 MBP running El Capitan, though I only used it for a few minutes after installing it.  Can you show us an example? 
[This is what it looks like](http://i.imgur.com/vSmLQFg.jpg). Seems to affect every font and spreadsheet.
Apologies, should have been more clearly written - the 'voting' is at a Microsoft 'issue tracker' site. I'm mainly urging anyone with the same issue to jump on the bandwagon.
I'm not sure. Weirdly, all other office apps on the same machine render the text as expected. For some reason, only Excel is affected.
I've been contacted by the Excel team and they're looking into it. Hopefully a fix will come soon. Very odd that the other Office 2016 apps seem to be fine.
Yep - [this is what it looks like](http://i.imgur.com/vSmLQFg.jpg). Affects any font or spreadsheet. I've followed a few wild-goose chases such as resetting all the font caches (even for non-Office products) and installing a few fonts completely cleanly to see if they're affected. the issue persists.
Avidman, this is Jeff from Microsoft Excel team. We've noticed this issue from other feedback channels as well. 

Do you mind sharing your contact information to this account "officeforipad" in a reddit message? We'd like to follow up with you for more information to get to the bottom the issue. 

Thanks for raising it, and apology for the inconvenience because of this bug. 

-Jeff
Just so we're clear, the blurry section is one that you intentionally blurred, right?  I certainly didn't see anything like that on my end.   As for the digits, and labels, it looks fine from where I am, assuming the minor artifacts are .jpg artifacts.  Have you been using a retina Mac and then you switched back? 
I was just playing. :D
Oh, no they are not. PowerPoint is god awful; it's particularly bad there because no projectors are retina, so your presentations always look like crap. For now, I use old PP or print to PDF and use Preview.
Really hard to see what's wrong with those artifacts over everything.
