I created a dungeon-crawling puzzle RPG in Excel based on minesweeper! (playable link in comments)
Good job! I poked around with it for about an hour. Fair warning though, it brought me so far into the Minesweeper groove that I tried to right-click to mark a block. Didn't work out well for me; same as Left-clicking. Just wasn't thinking.
awesome game, i love the assassin class with right clicking =] thanks for making this!
Well that just stole a bunch of time from me. Just finished beating the game with all the classes. Thanks for the game!
This is pretty awesome. Cheers. 
Very impressive
really, very very impressive!
i believe the coding for assassin heals you after the engage, so if you asassinate with 1 hp left you can still die, is this true?

I really enjoyed this! Very well done. 

Have you considered making add-ons like unlocking items, weapons or power-ups for defeating the necromancer as each class?
mmm.. gr8 game, thank you

very funtastic !!! http://prntscr.com/97686y
Saving for later
Glad to know you enjoyed it.  It's a bit hard to implement marking here since the flags have different values; it's a not a simple "yes-no" thing.  

Also ,the Assassin has a special move where he can kill a guy of the exact same level as him if you right click on the cell.  Try that class, it's fun!
No problem. Glad you had fun with it!
Hm. A successful backstab itself doesn't heal you - I actually can't think of any reason you would have gained HP haha.  But yeah if you unsuccessfully backstab at 1HP (on an empty square or on a monster not your level), you die.  
Yep, sure did. The idea of persistent bonuses like [Dream Quest](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/dream-quest/id870227884?mt=8) came up, but that was... way more coding and balancing time than I had or wanted to invest.  I wanted to make the next game already haha
You're right, I like the assassin. I haven't found any fault in the logic yet. This is pretty solid. I'm currently working on a Battleship type game, which is great fun to program, because I'm just that pathetic.
