Can I pay someone here for a 1 hour tutoring session?
I'd be willing to help you get as far as you want to learn for free with the knowledge I have to share. More or less just trying to make converts to my Excel training that I eventually want to get in the business of doing. [It's Not About The Cell](http://www.itsnotaboutthecell.com) and my [Contact Page](http://itsnotaboutthecell.com/contact/)
While I do think you're throwing away money, if it helps you learn then it's worth a try.

Can you state how much your willing to pay, your preferred teaching method (Skype, in person) and level of Excel training required?
several offers already but if, for whatever reason, i'll throw my hat in here as well... pro bono though. I used to train excel and miss it... which is the main (only) reason I visit the sub.
Not to step on anyone's toes/pocket book, this sub is pretty helpful when it comes to helping people out.  If you describe what you are looking to do, there is a good chance you'd get an answer from here for free.

Besides, even if you do want to go the Skype route, describing the problem first would help the person you choose to make sure they have a solution/plan ahead of time.  That way the Skype call would be shorter, to the point, and there is no muddling around if they have to refer to outside sources.
Www.excelwiz.com.  click on "Store" they do live webinar sessions, I did one they helped me with a work project.
Why not try the week trial at lynda.com
I've never used it but several of the tech podcasts I listen to rave about it. They have beginner to advanced excel courses.

That's very kind of you, though I am happy to pay. I'll get in touch. 
Thank you! This looks great.
Not sure what to offer. How about forty bucks for an hour? Not to be reduced if I need less. Skype is good, I can share my screen. Not a very high level.  I need help sorting data and making some menus to look at it different ways. 
All good points. I can make a copy of the sheet and link it with some questions or ideas. Should I do that here or in a new post? 
Lol $40/hour, where are you from if you don't mind my asking? Just curious, in my country (east Europe) it'd be more like $10/h when not requesting a professional.
Here is fine, I would imagine.  If it doesn't get any responses, you could always repost it in its own thread.
It's only for one hour though. Someone who's a professional at something wouldn't waste their time for 10 bucks.
I'd love to have a look, too!
That's what I was thinking. I'm in the United States. 
