Please welcome our new Corporate Overlords
So.....What you're telling me is that we're all going to receive new Surface Pro 3s from our new sponsor?? 
I think this is a positive for the sub.  Thanks for being transparent.  I think this is a good way to handle these situations.
tell those guys to make excel handle real fuckin big data like map redoop and shit! fuck yea
> That’s where we have a wealth of statistics through Reddit and Clippy

As a post scriptum to this part of the announcement, I would like to give you a little more information about this.

The data that is collected has ZERO personal information outside of your reddit user name.  That being said we will at no time send that data to anyone out side of the mod team.

The only information that we will provide to the Microsoft Team is the following:

###/r/Excel Traffic Statistics
https://www.reddit.com/r/excel/about/traffic

###Clippy Reference Responses
Each time Clippy is called to return the function, we are capturing Who called Clippy, what function was called, and a data/time stamp.

###Clippy Point Statistics
Each time Clippy awards a point, we are capturing the comment ID, who is getting the Clippy Point and a date/time stamp

###Random Statistics Complied Manually
Any other stats that are collected, are done so manually, that anyone that has access to /r/Excel.  One thing we are looking into doing is capturing what sort of questions are being asked.  This is a tough one as the wording is vastly different between posts and it is very much a manual process, as in post by post.  It would be great to report back to the Microsoft Team that a function in Excel is not working as good as it should be, or that another function would be great if...

It is these sorts of things that we are hoping we can provide to the team to improve the product.

Lastly, any information that is shared with the Microsoft Product Team we will also provide in our update posts about what was discussed.

Thanks again for all you do, and please share your comments, concerns, or questions, as we have always tried to make this as much your community as it is ours... 

I think this is great, i had a few questions. Being as this was between the mods and excel and not reddit as a company are there any sort of legal documents in place? Not that it will come into play but was IP considered?


How does reddit inc feel about this development.
>P.S. The title was intended to be a poor attempt at humour

I believe you told me once /u/epicmindwarp that excel and humor do not mix. The thread was so long ago I can't find it so I'm not sure it was you, but judging by your spelling of "humour", I think it was you.

Anyway...

The internet has been a harsh place for me to learn/hone VBA skills when it comes to cross application functionality. I've always assumed that since VBA runs behind all the MS applications that it should be quite simple to manipulate each app through excel. I've found it quite difficult and convoluted to perform tasks cross application.

Is MS going to offer direct contact for specific technical questions, specifically higher functionality questions, or is it geared toward the masses and general functionality? To be honest, this sub needs little if any help regarding the basic functions of excel; functions that an overwhelming majority of the community need help with. 

If MS wants to know why so many people who want to know how to use their software come here, it's simple (we kill the batman), this is the best platform to ask questions and receive answers. God, has anyone ever used a corporate help service?! Atrocious. 

I would be ecstatic if I had access to someone(s) who could answer my VBA questions in a timely manner without using the phrase "try" or "this might" and if this is what MS is offering, (though I have a feeling this **is not** to be super pals for life and hold hands and be fun and help everyone with excel for ever and ever) I'm excited about it. 
This subreddit is more or less devoted to educating redditors as it pertains to all matters Excel.  I think it would be an injustice to deny educational opportunities to the community - especially considering many of the greatest Excel minds are employed by MS.  So kudos to you mods, as always.

Now, excuse me while I see if Microsoft_PM_MeXBoxCodesforExcelMarketingData is available as a user name.
FOR THE LOVE OF BEING USEFUL, PLEASE PROGRAM IN A BETTER COLOR SCHEME THAN LIGHT/DARK/AWFUL(GREEN) INTO EXCEL 2016.

All I want is Office 2010's color scheme back. I'll take the wonky weird square nature things as long as I don't want to claw my eyes out every time I look at 365/2013. I have held off upgrading because of the color scheme and layout.
I feel this is very much a positive thing as I'm sure most people bear no hard feelings for *this* aspect of microsoft's programming and it can be beneficial for us all
Dear Corporate Overlords... Can you add Proper to the format menu so I can do my entire sheet at once? Thanks.
Aristite here!

Was active a year ago, disappeared from the face of the sub when I got a real adult job.

So ignore this post if these have been addressed either by the sub or in Microsoft 2016:

Every new user to Excel should be made to do a VLOOKUP/COUNTIF(S)/SUMIF(S)/etc... tutorial with the most used functions so they don't have to come here with frequently asked questions. 

Please. Color Schemes. Please. Excel 2013 only makes me feel more of a corporate minion. It brings in feelings of cubicle farms and harsh lighting. 

Great job mods! I'll be sure to visit more often for my chance at winning Surface Pro 4s!
Sounds great!

I've had similar contact with the Excel team through another group and found it to be very positive in a way that I think this subreddit would appreciate. The little experience I've had with them was all good and I didn't notice anything to get worried about.
IDK if this is the place for suggestions but, I've been having issues interfacing excel to non-excel programs.  I was particularly working with AutoCAD sending commands via excel and I got it to work but there is very little documentation out there on how to interface with external programs or even the windows API (using it to find running processes, target certain windows, etc).
I don't see the point
You mean those iPads the NFL people use? 
*Overlord

Your incredibly useful and constructive feedback will be sent directly to the team at Microsoft. 
4s are coming soon...
One for each up vote? 
Awesome! Glad to hear it!

You guys are the life blood of this sub so we want to do everything possible to keep our users happy. It's always nice to hear positive feedback, so thanks again!
I second this -- sounds like a potentially great, positive community partnership.
Damn right, I'm increasingly having to pull stuff out with R and present with Tableau. PowerBI has a hard cap on filesize, Excel 64 is in theory limited by the pc and with powerpivot can handle big files but in reality you get a bunch more crashes and data sync issues. I've got 16GB of RAM, an overclocked 4.7ghz i7 and a nice SSD but I still get grey outs even when only 4GB is used and 30% CPU. With 200MB+ files regular autosave is a necessity but that can hang if powerpivot and excel are mid operation. 

 So I'm either going to have to double down on SQL and DAX but even that's got limits if you're bringing the dataset into excel for charts. or I push on and learn Python and R and play some more with BigQuery which is a hefty time commitment and overkill for the smaller datasets. I'd like to lose some of the round-trip I need to clean and subset the data to make it usable in Excel 

I'm still using Excel daily but just having a little more overhead would mean I'm not straddling the line between the various big toys and the daily driver quite as often. 
> outside of your reddit user name.

Call me paranoid, but I'd prefer to leave my username out of this sort of thing. 

Other than that, thanks for being so open and direct. Your behavior should set an example for some other subs I can think of. 
That is a great question.  At this time Reddit Inc. is not involved in the process.  We are still very much in the infancy of the relationship and this topic has not become an issue.

Before we agreed to open the dialog with Microsoft we talked (and still continue to discuss) about what is allowed and isn't.  With some of the issues other subs have run into, we decided to take this slow and move cautiously.

If at any point we feel that this might become an issue, we will contact the admins before agreeing to or signing anything.


I've always felt that VBA was fairly accessible. With [the MSDN site](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/office/ee861528.aspx) and all of the community resources out there, it has been the language that I picked up the fastest outside of a university classroom.

Now, what *would* be more handy is many more examples of working code on the MSDN site.
Like we said, nothing has been finalized, but direct access to product team members for deeper technical support was one of the possibilities they brought up during our call, so it's really nice to get some specific feedback that we can use as an example of the kind of questions the userbase might have. 

The future of VBA and the degree of integration of VBA with the newly integrated features (Power tools and such), is another interesting question, now that you make me think of it. 

My impression (which could be wrong) was that they were primarily interested in being able to support on the higher functionality technical questions, not the bulk of questions (like how to do a vlookup).   
The exact shape or form this could take, or the timeline, I won't speculate in, we don't have anything this concrete yet at all, but your input (and the community's input and ideas in general) is very welcome. 
Our Overlords are calling for suggestions like this to be shared and voted on at their Excel suggestions box: https://excel.uservoice.com
Lol, so all it takes to get you back is an iPad huh? 

Remember you asking around on /r/finance, awesome that it (and/or other hard work) paid off and you landed yourself a real adult job! Congratulations!  

You aren't the only one to say color schemes lol, but I doubt we'll ever get forced excel training, that's like requiring a license to raise kids! 


You don't see the point of the makers of the application of this sub asking us how we can make the application they build that we are advocating, better? 
It must thrill Microsoft when the announcers spent all of last year calling them iPads.
Exactly, that way they can clean out the old 3s by giving them to us... Win, win! 
for most business cases, Excel is better than R. ..except when it comes to large data'r..like you said.
At the minute we are manually scraping /r/excel (with a spreadsheet naturally!) So we can definitely clean the usernames from the dataset. We are only capturing information about OPs, not comments in threads.     

The caveat is that reddit information is entirely public, so anyone could be scraping your username and your activity (see for example http://www.roadtolarissa.com/javascript/reddit-comment-visualizer/ ).  

This also means that any information about a post - it's contents, posting time and date, the comment ID, etc. could be used along with reddit search to get the relevant username in a couple of clicks.  

As such, anonymization by clearing the username is only going to be a very weak anonymization. On the other hand there is also very little informational value in capturing the username of the OPs. 

Going through our current scraping/analysis sheet, the username of OPs is actually used for absolutely nothing at this point, so your concerns are definitely something we'll take into consideration with regard to how much / what data we pull.
> Call me paranoid, but I'd prefer to leave my username out of this sort of thing.

Let me clarify.  We are capturing user names with Clippy and such, but when it comes to data that is sent, I don't see any need to send user names along with the data. 

So yes, we are capturing user names, but we will not send that information to the Microsoft Team.  
You do know that this is a public subreddit, right?  It's not like your username isn't visible to them already.
It would be nice if there were some provision/guideline/mission statement/holy mantra/option explicit about CONSTRUCTIVE but negative feedback. While I am sure there's enough down-talking and belittling on the internet, the excel subreddit has been pretty good about keeping on topic and leading to useful outcomes. However, sometimes Microsoft makes mistakes/errors/jumping paperclips and they should accept the appropriate feedback, and people need to see that others feel similarly. While I don't believe that the mods would get to the point of removing posts when a negative point is brought up, just because it's negative, I'd like to believe an explicit statement about negative comments would help. We have a very specific topic in the subreddit, it should be possible to give the right perspective.
  
oh I could be totally wrong, and we need more bill gates porn here.
edit: wrong word/spelling.
I noticed recently on msdn there's this git hub link at the top, that's a new thing isn't it?
I was commenting specifically on cross application functionality. 

Yes, VBA as a whole is fairly accessible with a simple google search.
I attribute the successful job hunt through the networking/connections/interview advice I got from /r/finance and related subs and from all that I've learned from helping out in /r/excel.

Seriously, I emphasized my strong excel skills at my interview and got the job. It's in Financial Analysis. 

Couldn't have done it without people like you, THANK YOU!
[deleted]
Thank you, Captain Obvious. 
> jumping paperclips

Hey now, come'on even robots have feelings...
hey, just thought I'd give you what I hope is a satisfactory reply. 

The mod team generally does not to moderate based on content; you'll see advertisements, negative comments, constructive comments, less-so constructive comments, and so on. As long as it isn't spam, against reddit rules, or things become too uncivil (name-calling, hateful comments, post-stalking, etc.) we generally let the community decide what to do with it through up- and down-votes and stay hands off. 

This policy will not change. 

You want to start a discussion about how horrible you think some part of Excel is? You're more than welcome to, and always will be. Just flair it correctly :P 

If you ever have any concerns or questions about the policies on specific kinds of posts (other than this), or a specific decision, please just ask away. 

To give you an idea of the extent of the moderation, we've had probably about 7-8000 comments (rough guesstimate) in the past month, and ~15 of them have been removed (that weren't originally posted by mods or clippy), mostly just minor spammy things or deleted posts, so removing posts is not a tool we deploy particularly often :)   


Awesome. I didn't know that existed and look forward to checking it out.
I believe so
Oh, yes. Cross-app is poorly documented.
yw, but you put in the effort yourself, learning and challenging yourself while helping out other people! :D 

Next up you can join /u/levils at the financial analysis excel challenge!  
Oh, btw, here's the financial modelling competition I was referring to: 

http://www.modeloff.com/

First round starts october 17th, signup now. I believe /u/levils has been in the finals at least once! :D
Keep in mind, any of the statistics we are collecting was not ever for MS. We have been collecting data all along in an effort to over-analyze everything.
It's not something we've discussed in detail (sharing the sheet itself) but we will now (lots of different time zones makes it a less than instant process!) But it's all just data scraped from reddit and then analysed in various ways, nothing secret or anything lol, so tentatively I don't see a problem with it. 

The report and data is still work in progress but maybe you guys have some great ideas for what to do with it, so that's a good idea, thanks.
/r/botsrights
dangit, you're right... i take back what I said about the jumping paperclips. 
  
still think whoever got rid of the start button should be shot, but i'll keep that to myself...
that's nice, would love to see if those stats maintain in the future. maybe even start a spreadsheet about it......

... Can I learn me some financial analysis stuff? 
Thanks, this is a something that is totally worth mentioning.   
The whole scraping and collating process in order to get some cool stats is relatively new (and unfinished) but it was started before any of this :)
I'll put it in the list of possible projects lol, but I don't see why they wouldn't. 
/u/epicmindwarp I can't tell whether you're joking? If you're serious, I'm sure it would be easy for you to learn the basics and that there would be plenty of people here that would help with pointers etc.

I created /r/financialmodelling a while back with the intention of helping people learn, but nobody showed up.
