Dear Excel, thanks for everything
For a couple of years in smaler/earlier days I used to spend several hours pee week answering questions and helping users in this sub. I undoubtedly benefitted from it more than those I answered, so thank you to r/excel for facilitating my education.  I highly recommend addressing posts here for anyone with medium to strong skills looking to progress to a higher level.
To me, excel is like a screwdriver.  Simple, easy to learn, and undeniably useful.  A lot of times on this sub I see people asking how to paint a wall with their screwdriver, and without fail, they figure out how.

Congratulations on mastering excel and applying what youve learned in real life.  But you dont need to stop learning now.  Add to your toolbox.  Access, R, Python, Tableau.  There are so many great tools out there and for a lot of projects, excel is the worst tool, even if its still possible.

The other thing is to keep honing your statistics and math skills.  Theres nothing more dangerous than a guy whos really good at screwing in screws, but didn't read the schematics for where the screws were supposed to go.  

Just my 2 cents.  Usually I wouldn't post here to say "use something else" because this is an excel reddit.
http://abload.de/img/798220-20animated_gifu9sug.gif
Try JMP or Tableau. 
Excel kinda gave me everything I ever needed. It all started with some data entry job. I had one month to work on a book. That's when i started to explore excel and learn VBA. I am no expert but still find a way to get things done. Thanks excel.
alot of business efficiencies can be driven by excel
> Can't believe that my love of data, some free classes and /r/excel[2] posts over the years is a valuable than my expensive 4 year degree.

Could someone please direct me to where these free classes are?
VLOOKUP changed my life!  We follow up with clients longitudinally and have to match timepoints.  This has saved me tons of time.  Granted I know I can move into other programs, but most of our data comes in excel files.
Having used Lotus and Wingz, I am so glad Excel was the winner.
This.

Even if the question is already solved, take a few moments and work though the exercise, figure it out for yourself, even post your answer.  Then check the ways others have done it.    It is not about being able to answer first, it is about being able to find the answer at all.  And that one time, that you run into the same problem at work that you answered in /r/Excel you will remember it and you will thank yourself for taking the time to answer that question.

Then you can thank your past self.
Doesn't make you wrong! 

Excel is a great tool that is available and used at pretty much every business workplace in the world, if not as the central tool for work, then for a multitude of ad hoc projects, but you can do so much more if you build on the knowledge you've gained and branch out outside Excel, it won't just make you better at those things, but it'll make you better at Excel too!   

I did a tutorial in Python and suddenly a lot of things clicked with regard to VBA, if you do a basic tutorial in R, you'll be introduced to working with vectors and matrices, making array formulas in Excel so much easier to wrap your head around. Learning basic SQL will enable you to leverage enterprise resources and grasp DAX much more easily, letting you build more awesome and robust reports. 

But for me, like the OP, Excel was what guided me into almost all those things, working around all of it's restrictions and shortcomings meant doing the same task in a different environment was already familiar! :D 


I completely agree!  I am excel nut, but there are so many applications out there.  I am constantly trying to digest what are each programs strong suit to determine when to use one over the other.  I would love a table of software and a description of when it is best to use which one.  I tell staff "Excel is great for data management, but not for data entry.  You need to move to ____ for that."  Additionally, how multiple programs can work together!

But I still believe that Excel is amazing!
do you have any recommendations as for how to improve knowledge in statistics?  I took a general stats class 12 years ago and barely remember it, the instructor was one of those who loved stats and taught it like everyone else had a life that revolved around it, I don't remember getting much out of it.
Just got my hands on Tableau. Don't tell Excel, it feels like I am cheating on her.
I would LOVE to use Tableu, I just refuse to stand behind a piece of software that cost $1500 per user... no thanks... 
Take a look at  [MATCH/INDEX](https://www.reddit.com/r/excel/wiki/frequentlyusedformulas)

http://i.imgur.com/WYpHK1v.gif
I like to think that there is more than one way to do things right in Excel... so each proposed answer has a lot of value... 


The way you understand, think and solve issues depends on our background and contexts.. /r/excel allows us to approach the problems from multiple sides and compare opinions... 


I will confess that, a few months ago, I knew nothing about Array Formulas and didn't use them at all... I saw a few threads in here, read a few links... and started answering questions right away... So in addition to being helpful, I am definitely benefiting from this.
There is a free version available. It has a lot of cool functionality to make visualizations, but real analysis is better in excel.
Enterprise software is expensive. JMP is the same, $1500 per user per year. For the value add most companies get they could charge much more without getting much pushback. Everything is moving to SaaS pricing models, may as well get used to it. At least Tableau is highly functional.
Not trying to be fan boy and to be honest I have not really dug to much into it, but PowerBI is $10.00.  From what I have read, is they are similar in some way, and much different in others... 

1200 per user is ridiculous...  no matter how you look at it. 
It's their revenue model. They are effectively a B2B services company, their service is just something that the client uses themselves. It allows them to support the salaries and G&A to constantly develop the product. It probably doesn't make sense for an individual, but for a business $100 a month to allow me to be much more effective at my job is a no brainier.
Oh don't get me wrong, I understand the point, and I do work for a large company (fortune 100), and some groups do use it in our company, but when they came and showed it to our group, there was very little that we felt above and beyond excel that justified the price for a group of 15+.
I guess it depends on what you do.
