Our overlords are pleased, and may their gracious hand be forever open...
This new baby keeps ruining my life... It's a good thing she's adorable.
I cannot go, but I wanted to say that I think this is great for /r/Excel! Congratulations to the Mod Team and to the community!
I'm interested! A bit of a trip for me from California but it'd be fun to learn some new Excel concepts. My local coworkers aren't into it like I so the only fun stuff is what others share online.
Very interesting.  I'd like to put my name in the hat. I'm on the continent, and could probably write off the travel as a training expense anyways. 

I'm not comfortable sharing my CV publicly here, but I am am in a relevant business field, and could give my details to the mods privately.
This may be interesting, but i'm not in the financial analyst or the like, but in construction. 

Is being in the financial world a pré or doesn't it matter?
I can not put my name in the hat, but just want to say this is a great idea -- thank you to all involved in making this real. 
As posted in another comment in this thread, it seems very interesting to go to London. When will be announced who can go to London? I would like to go but will have to make the necessary preperations. edit: A word
I think this should be posted in Mr Excel rather.
3-4 December is quite a bad date, because many people working in finance have the so called "month close" during the first days of the month, when they deal with reports concerning prior months. You obviously will not change the date of your event, but you should consider a more suitable date for the future events.
congratulations :) 
pictures plz!
There's some fun challenges on their "past questions" page, I've gone through a few so far. 

I am definitely going to start pointing people looking to really polish their skills at these.
There are 3 rooms. 2 of which appear to be finance related, 1 is dedicated to excel and more technical
A final decision will be made this week.
Thank you for the suggestion.  This is something that is exclusive to Reddit and /r/Excel.  You can find more information on our relationship with the Microsoft Excel Product Team [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/excel/comments/3lusom/please_welcome_our_new_corporate_overlords/).  There may already be someone in touch with Bill, but we are not part of those conversations.

TL:DR
Microsoft reached out to us as part of an outreach program.  This is one of the first things that has come of our talks with the Microsoft Excel Product Team.
This event is run by Microsoft, not us.
Do I hear a motion to implement a "New Baby Pictures Monday" weekly thread?
Oh, I have photos!  My wife is a professional photographer, so you'll notice the difference in quality between the first few photos you see here and the last.

http://imgur.com/a/9uchm
Count me in then. Sounds awsome to attend.
No offense I love r/excel for simple things but when comes to feedback on array functions it's Mr Excel maybe theyre more programming types than financial types.
I have a few hundred to upload!
Mate, she's adorable!  Very proud daddy I take it?

Here's one of my daughter, 7 months old:

http://i.imgur.com/ow2CWgr.jpg
Aww! What a cutie! Congrats mom & dad! 
None taken!

I am sure Mr. Jelen is going to be attending, as I have seen a few emails on the MVP list bouncing back and forth, but as to Microsoft offering a few spots to the event, I am unaware of any conversation that has been had.
Oh super proud. Also, your daughter oh my God, so cute. I'd never take her out of that suit.
