Company going to pay for online VBA course, which is the best?
Flair changed to discussion. 

Try udemy.com

Lots of courses and reviews. 
I haven't tried the VBA courses specifically, but lynda.com is a well regarded site for many of their tutorial courses
[This](https://openeducation.blackboard.com/mooc-catalog/courseDetails/view?course_id=_219_1) is a good basic intro.
Excel Campus offers a VBA course.

* Edit: Here's the link. "From Beginner to Pro" -- http://www.excelcampus.com/vba-pro-course-enrollment/

MyOnlineTrainingHub offers courses on dashboarding and some other topics.

* http://www.myonlinetraininghub.com/

Bill Jelen will fly to your location and provide an on-site seminar.

* http://www.mrexcel.com/meetmrexcel.shtml

There's also official training from MSFT.
How much VBA experience do you have? I wouldn't take a course. 

Is it enough that you can build something practical? Ask them to pay you while you build (and learn VBA) something practical. Even if it only solves a tiny problem, it can be very helpful. You'll eventually be able to start grouping these tiny efficiencies into whole process saving "apps" (sheets/databases).

It will really depend on what will be useful for your company, but I bet you there is at least one Excel process you can write in Access or a disconnected process that can be connected through Excel.

I've made a data cleaner and importer when I was working for a small data management company, a response creator for a major bank, and a human resource app for the university dining when I was in school. All of these positions allowed me some time to create these applications while I was working for them and managing my other duties. 1 out of 3 were implemented, the last one. 
Just get them to buy you the book vba for dummies. 

Read through it. Skip over the user forms, you'll figure that out on your own if you ever need to - you won't, Excel is a great user interface for the majority of business needs, if you're dealing with competent people.

That'll teach you all that you need to know to start hacking away at problems. And this book assumes zero programming experience, it covers binary in the introduction  if I remember correctly. 

After that, it's just a matter of Googling what you're trying to accomplish and  asking for help on /r/excel when that fails. 

After that, if you're going to be dealing with databases ; I strongly recommend the YouTube channel Wise Owl tutorial. It's entirely free and this wonderful man will teach you how to get excel to interact with your database. He also covers ssrs and tons of other stuff. 

That's what I did in the last year in a half. And now, I can say that I singlehandedly developed excel apps that managed to reduce our lead time by up to 2 weeks on large jobs, at the small (50 employees) manufacturing company where I work. 
What is your job?
How much are they willing to spend? I'll teach you a few things!! ;)
[deleted]
Don't know why you are getting down voted, I'd do the same thing.  I will give one on one VBA courses.  I am a data analyst at a Fortune 500 company and Excel MVP.

Guarantee you won't find another one on on VBA course unless it is a self course like uDemy...

And I wouldn't charge an arm and a leg...
Don't know about other cities, but in my city you can get access to lynda.com for free through the public library
They aren't free.
What did you do to earn the Excel MVP status?
[deleted]
Good point.
