Excel 2016. Bad reviews.
My single biggest complaint is the icon spacing on the quick access tool bar.  Sure, it's for touch, but I dare say there will hardly be anyone actively using touch screens with excel.

Second, the chart layout tab that used to be in a tab on the ribbon is now buried in a drop down.

I'd say stay with 2013.  I had 2007 and a deal came along from my wife's work to get the full office suite for $10 so I couldn't pass it up, but if I had my choice I'd stick with 2010/2013.
You're basing your concern on **3** reviews made by faceless goombas in the crowd?  Not only that, read the reviews.  

> Data doesn't save in powerpivot?

Wat? Of course it does.  I mean, if you don't save the book then yeah i guess it might not, but since the reviewer doesn't offer any context to their issue there's no way for you to know.  There's a hundred ways someone who has no idea what they're doing can do something stupid and think the software is at fault--these reviews scream that.

How about, rather than concern yourself with the reviews of the worst PEBKAC offenders, you read some reviews by a MS MVP or some industry analyst.  

I've been using 2016 since may or so as my daily driver. Occasional crashes, but I'd say not more often than 2013 crashed. Overall I like the improvements in powerquery and haven't noticed too many other differences.

I just checked out those reviews, and I wouldn't put too much faith in 3 reviews on the MS store. One appears to be a bug or user error, the one about addins could be legit, or could be someone trying to use older incompatible addins, and one appears to be an incompatibility with standalone access 2013, so unless any of those are your use case, you should be ok.

But, if you already have 2013, I'd say it's not worth paying $100 to upgrade
It's a total of 3 reviews.  

There's no need to upgrade fro 2013 to 2016 unless you use the new and/or improved features.  If you need a spreadsheet to just be a spreadsheet, than stick with what you've got.
I still prefer office 2010. I like the look and feel and I really haven't found many added features in 2013 that would really make me want to make it my personal go-to. I do have 2013 at work and I had to do a fair bit of customization to make it not so annoying, namely, the animations. Cool eye candy, hugely annoying as the UI doesn't feel quite as responsive for rapid data entry.
If you have some specific use for the new 2016 features, go for it, if you don't and already have Excel >2007, then you can stick with what you've got I suppose. £100 is a lot of money to shell out just to have the latest version of something where you don't use the functionalities (built-in powerquery, powerpivot, powermaps, improved data models, more charting options, improved handheld device compatability). 

I mean for the price of the standalone package you can get almost 2 years subscription to office 365 personal, I know there's a lot of dislike for the subscription model, but I'd probably just go for that instead if I was looking for a home office package. 
The whole 'make everything the same on touch screens and non-touch screens' is really dumb.
Excel 2016 autofill is crap. 
I'm sticking with 2013 for now. I usually wait a year or two before adopting new Office products so they can get all the bugs out. I haven't tried 2016, but like the reviews on the site, I haven't heard good things.
It's not substantially better so I wouldn't say there's a big reason to upgrade. Powerpivot is cool if you can use it well but Microsoft came late to the game with this as there are other options like it outside of excel that are better IMO.

Every new release by Microsoft has its bugs so I would wait a little bit.
I've only used it for about an hour so far, but I really don't like how you highlight things now. It feels like janky openoffice. Not everything needs to be animated like that. Just highlight my damn cells.
This is based off 3 random reviews. I don't think that's enough to make any kind of judgement.
I like 2016. Power Query, and Power Map are both built in and run very smooth. I've had no issues and have been using it for a few months now.
I am still using 2007 because 2010 had an issue resizing of my checkboxes and some other issues (since then have finally seemed to be fixed), but it also seemed to be a resource hog.  I tried 2013 and it seemed to carry over the random checkbox resizing at the time.  2007 works fine for what I built for it.  I'm sure if I needed to work with connected data sources or other PowerBI and various app solutions they've been building then of course I'd switch, but while I need the VBA and slightly more than the Web or Google versions, I don't need everything in the newest versions either.  I have 2016 at home however and that more on the principle I'm paying for 365 so might as well.

I do find the flourish of the newer versions nice, and I like the consistency they are going for between touch and desktop versions.
Admittedly I haven't used it much yet, but it seems at least moderately better at dealing with large amounts of data than 2013, which crashes on my all the time for files that aren't even that big. One of my biggest grievances with 2013 was that it was just generally incapable with working with large amounts of data, which can just completely break your workflow. Icon spacing/layout is comparatively less important and won't really prevent you from getting anything done.
What is with all these crashes in 2013+? I've used 2010 for work all day long for years(I design/maintain very complex financial and productivity reports for a large corporation) and I can't even remember the last time i crashed.  I picked up a contract project which I did on my PC with 2013 and crashed repeatedly on some basic stuff(small data pivots). As what I would consider a power user, and someone who has strongly fought to keep Excel as our primary reporting tool, it really concerned me with the future of Excel, and I had to recommend against upgrading from 2010.
If you have a use for them, I'd say the changes in power query and pivot tables are pretty remarkable. 
I agree. While I see the need for mobile apps, trying to shove a mobile app onto a desktop often makes it feel stripped and incomplete.
Powerpivot works with 2010 and 2013 as well.
How are the data mapping features? I am considering updated simply for the mapping of addressed integrated with Bing maps.
I've used 2013 for just about as long as it's been out, and it's been stable for me.

I've also been using 2016 on my home PC (so, not very heavy use), and it's seemed just fine.
My company switched to Excel 2013 back in April and it has been a nightmare for us. We work with large excel files and Excel often crashes; more so when we have 2 or 3 files open at once. This never happened when we had 2010. That said, I have 2013 on my personal PC and it works just fine, but my personal files are nowhere near as large as the files we use at work. Overall very frustrating. 
Good tip. Those aren't things that I use, but Power Query could come in handy at some point. I'll keep this in mind. Cheers! 
I agree, has been pretty stable across the board. Was using 2010 and 2013 at the same time (work vs home) most of last year and really didn't notice more crashes on 2013. 2010 had it's fair share too. 

Typically I see crashes from loading up "too much data", but there are always the occasional randoms.
Yeah,  it's completely unacceptable.  I had to give up on the way I was doing a report altogether and build a formula pivot based off of slicer selection results (they wanted slicer buttons). 
