Thanks to Excel i landed a good position and had a great career opportunity!
It's amazing what Excel skills can do for your career path.

Two years ago I did menial work for a living. I made a simple spreadsheet to make the menial work slightly less menial, then got promoted to a more data-heavy position. Learned more Excel on the job. Last year, I was designated the official Excel wizard at the company and won Employee of the Year. Now I'm part of management. My only real qualification is that I'm pretty good with Excel and know how to use Google, and it's gotten me pretty far.
I never realized how valuable excel skills were until I started working in an office. There are also the kinds of people who really get 'stuck' in using excel in certain ways and cant grasp or understand new features. This makes me, an intermediate user, seem like a wizard.  
Where do you go to get certified as a trainer? Is that something your company offered?
[deleted]
Congratulations!, I am glad to hear about your success, do you have any tips  on how to start  with excel?, I know a thing or two about it but when it comes to complex stuff what I know won't just cut it.

Have a great one!
[deleted]
My coworkers call me Excel Yoda. I should just become a corporate excel trainer.
Congrats that's where I want to be. In 6 months I could barely find rows and columns and now I do Vlookups everyday. I need to do what you did and follow those videos 
Just wait until you get into the advanced side of excel. Knowing VBA and complex formulas has landed me the nickname of "Master Excel Wizard" at my current job. Keep up the good work, practice, patience and Google will take you a long ways, trust me. 
Congratulations!!! It's the best, always will be :)
Where did you get the certification to be an Excel Trainer?

What a wonderful story OP! Here's to you becoming an Excel Guru, and never stop learning.
This is a great sub, I haven't posted much but I have searched through it a TON to get answers to some basic excel questions. Thank you to everyone for all the help!
That's awesome!! I've found pivot tables can get you light years ahead of peers. My personal favorite excel tool lately has been PowerQuery. 
One of us! One of us! 
  
  But really, congrats dude! 
I mean if this is the positive vibes good news thread - got around a 17% promotion this week to being just shy of the $70k's for those who are curious of what Excel proficiency can potentially earn (Midwest - USA). Fortune 500 company that I call a "Spreadsheet Sweatshop" has it's good days and its bad but seeing how people use Excel (both to positives and determinants) and being involved with Workforce Automation, Data Normalization and Data Visualization have made me pretty well rounded individual. Eyes on the prize are now working towards the Microsoft Excel MVP certification as I start giving back to the community per their requirements via online presence. Trying to find that sweet spot for individuals who are plateauing at the real intermediate to advanced skill levels - not just those who say "Here's an IF statement" now you're advanced! Always open to feedback. TLDR: Bearded, Tattooed, Corporate Outcast - Got A Raise Using Excel - Check Out My Site: [It's Not About The Cell](http://www.itsnotaboutthecell.com).
Congratulations! I've also started the excelisfun series a few months ago but dropped it because my current job doesn't require the use of excel, meaning I haven't got anything to practice excel on. But I am looking to get into investment banking now so will try to start learning again. :)
world economies and billion dollar business decisions are done with excel. welcome to the force!!
Yes, it is offered by the company. The intermediate excel training is handled by the training team and it's not available yet for certification process hence, the basic excel is the only one offered. The good thing about being certified as a trainer is that you can put in your resume if you've decided to resign which is really a benefit.
Look up pivot tables and lookups. Those were my first real game changers.
Count, Counta, Countblank, If, Sumif, Averageif, Countif etc.

I strongly suggest the youtube series of excelisfun (user). It will build a good foundation of your excel knowledge then you can branch out from there. 3 months ago i finished his vlookup shark week series.
Depends on your work.  

I do a lot of analysis and Forecasting work, so when I need to modify anything, I have to do a bunch of repetitive tasks on similar but separate worksheets.  

As a general rule of thumb, whenever I have to do a task more than three times (copying formats/formulas). I make quick and easy macros to do the heavy lifting for me. So instead of meticulously remembering every step, I can just sit back and Ctrl+w (or whatever bind) my way to victory.  

Learning to use macros (even disposable simple ones) will certainly make you more productive, and its easier and more accurate than doing it by hand.
INDEX MATCH!!!
I'll give more generic advice.   Learn what tools you have in your toolbox.

Click on the little "fx" next to the formula bar.   Set the category to "All", Click on the first one, read, press the down arrow, read, press the down arrow, repeat until you run out.

Another thing to remember is that functions return one datum.   You can use that to feed directly into other functions.  =IF is a huge example of this.
left(), right(), mid(), substitute(), and search() are my key data cleanup tools.

datedif() is a useful function I didn't know existed in excel until recently, and it is really strange because excel does not include it in the formulas helper or show the parameters for it if you enter it in a cell (it just shows "datedif()". It simply allows you to find the day, month, or year difference between 2 dates.

Learn VBA as an end-goal to your excel experience. You will look like the smartest guy in the office to non-vba users (99%) and it's so easy when you get the hang of it. 
sumproduct opens a lot of doors when it comes to analyzing large pools of data out of SAP.  I used it a lot in a previous position for calculating ADP (average days to pay) and things like that.  As someone else mentioned, index & match is so much more versatile than vlookup/hlookup.  I do a lot with regular tables, and dip into pivot tables if a regular table isn't quite robust enough.  There's an excel MVP named chandoo who has a fantastic website for learning excel: chandoo.org  I'm not associated with the site, just a fan, but I highly recommend it.
I started watching a basic excel youtube series made by the user named excelisfun. I practiced with the lessons i watched that day repeatedly. If it's an easy lesson i would watch 2-3 videos in 1 sitting. They key is, i don't force myself to watch. If i feel like it is getting boring, i'll stop.

Once i finished all the videos, i tried creating my own tracker. I ran a lot last year so i track all my runs using average, sum, conditional formatting, if etc. I also stepped up in work, i tried creating shortcuts for my team so that our work would get easier. I got commended from it but as you can read from my OP i resigned afterwards.

From there i experimented stuff. I tried nested functions. I would read the posts here and try it in excel. I would also throw away my tracker and i will create a new one to practice.

I strongly believe in repetition. I do grappling and we have something called drilling. It's where you do a technique over and over again to refine it. I just applied it here in excel. Also, i am a firm believer of having a firm basic foundation is a must before venturing to more complex stuff. 
I don't know about you, but I learn a lot more with hands on and real life applications.

Watching a video on how to use a formula doesn't teach me when to use that formula.

Start using excel for simple things like tracking your spending, gas mileage, some video game stats, etc. and figure out how to automate some of the workload and drill down to get specific information.

Date your columns and try to figure out what the average gas price you paid was on Tuesdays for the past 3 months.  Something like that, but it will help you in the real world when you need to do it for months but over the span of years.
Good for you! Being good in Excel really puts you in a good position. Congrats!
Ha. I wish I had a nickname. I'm just the guy that can make it go.
I'm still a noob in terms of macro and the codes. I really need to step up my game. Thanks!
My company offered it. My boss signed me up and i took the challenge. My boss really pushed me since he knows my work revolves around excel and my teammates need an Excel training. 
I am in your shoes when i was in my previous employer. I was in the processing side of the company so we rarely use Excel. The only people who uses it are the managers and reports analyst. I still practice on my breaks or after i finished my work. I would try to analyse excel files on our folder or try to play around our time tracker. 
Hell, forget about resigning.    Put that on your linkedin, and make the jobs come to you.
Yeah, good on you for that stuff. That is resume gold right there.
I don't care what industry you're in if you can do vlookup's & pivot tables you can really set yourself apart today and become a huge asset to your company
Learn LOOKUP first, and then learn this!
I've been using Excel for years as a tracking tool for my employees. I'm good with all the basics and make some superb tables and charts...but all manually, which is extremely time consuming. You just cracked the code so to speak for me. I've been sitting here at work just messing with formulas and conditional formatting, and realizing not only how much time I'm going to save, but how much I've wasted in the past! Oh well, now I know. Thank you!
Thank you so much for taking the time to answer. This really helps
Great idea thanks!
Great advice! It helps to think up reasons to use Excel. Like learning a language, it's good to take it outside the classroom and seek out reasons to use it.

One other good idea is to make up peculiar things to try to model or track in Excel. That can force you into areas of Excel where your obvious uses won't take you.

Maybe take 5 houses and details of each, along with their pictures. Could you have Excel calculate the ideal house for you and have its picture automatically pop up as you adjust the variables?


I built an automatic google translate macro into one of our process documents that Translates all of the English text to Spanish and since then people have been jokingly saying that my spreadsheets know how to use the force. 
I know Excel Is Fun have their own homework to do, but  I don't think those are enough to be practiced consistently. But I will try find something in my daily life I can apply Excel to. Thanks a lot for your post man, it gave me some more encouragement to try again :) 
instead of vlookup, use index(...,match(...)), much more flexible, and you don't need to count columns
Why?

INDEX/MATCH is just as easy as lookup if explained properly and is far more functional.
Exactly, look to the future.     

Couple points... If you haven't already, look into PivotTables/Charts.    If you're aggregating data in some form for display, they make it dirt simple, and almost instantaneous.   You can even do fun stuff like "Group by employee per week" if you wanted to get hours worked, for example.

Also, look into the "Formula" section of Conditional Formatting too.   You don't have to limit yourself to simple greater than, less than bits.   I have a vertical calendar of sorts (covers a few years) where I color each Sunday, the First of the Month, or days where the data crosses a threshold, and I did it with only a couple Conditionals, and Format Painting. :)
You need to find a way to dangle those participles.. make it read like Yoda
Fantasy sports is a great source of data, and is a great way to learn and practice excel school. 
I've seen that a lot, but the tutorials I tried weren't particularly helpful. Do you know of any good ones that might help? 

Edit: just looked again  and it clicked for me. 
I'm not familiar with index and match.... I'd probably just use VBA....
>~~make it read like Yoda~~  
Read like Yoda, make it.  FTFY
Could you expand a bit on this? Do you mean creating like a league table for football teams etc? 
Replying just so others that can see it.

The syntax for INDEX/MATCH is really simple.

Assuming you have a list of names on Sheet 1 and want to pull addresses from Sheet 2.

=INDEX(column of addresses on sheet 2,MATCH(cell of name on sheet 1, column of names on sheet 2,0))

The ,0 at the end is for an exact match.

In other words

=INDEX(what you want to appear,MATCH(what I want to match, where I want to match it to,0))
Yeah power query and powerpivot are excellent tools for doing fantasy sports analysis. There's a great series of articles from powerpivotpro.com that go step by step through building an analysis model using power query and powerpivot.

It starts [here](http://www.powerpivotpro.com/2009/10/announcing-the-great-football-project/), and there are links at the bottom of each article that take you to the next article.
Alternately, =INDEX(Column I want to return value from, MATCH (My lookup value, column I want to Lookup against, enter "0"))

I have this printed out and hanging in my cube.
Thanks a lot!
That is definitely easier to understand than what I said.
