What are some typical career paths for someone who is good at Excel/Access/VBA and similar programs?
[deleted]
Check out upworks.com. It's a freelance market, and there are some people who get to do it full time. I'm not suggesting you quit your day job, but I think you might enjoy posting your services to see which projects you enjoy--think of it as an exploratory exercise. 


I would charge just enough to be taken seriously. 
[deleted]
Financial technology companies may interest you. Blackrock, Clearwater Analytics, EY, SSGA, WSO, Markit, Reuters, Barclays, Bloomberg, etc... They work to build streamlined software off big data.
In fact, some corporate treasury departments have a need for this as well.
My husband works in pensions admin and has recently shifted to become a pensions systems analyst due to his Excel/VBA skills. Once he's done that for a couple of years he should be able to work as a systems analyst in a different industry of he wants to, or shift to a different tech role.

Set yourself up with some daily job alerts - some sites will allow you to put a key word such as VBA and within x miles of your postcode. Check the jobs daily and see what other skills you may need to learn. Over time you might see a job you want to apply for. Other people may have more suited qualifications, but in a finance environment your skills as an accountant will be strongly considered as well. Not sure if being an accountant may pay better though?
I work in environmental, when I started I was doing typical environmental work (sampling lab reporting, monitoring, government submissions, etc.), now I'm probably doing database management 70% of my day and am a huge advocate for management to hire someone with a stronger background in it to take up some of the slack. I think this not uncommon. With large industrial facilities a company may have hundreds of thousands to millions of sampling data points (lab analyticals, QA/QC, etc.) for the last year alone. Some of my wastewater and hazardous waste sampling produce mountains of data from all the organic chemicals we have to look for, it so important to keep it all in order in the event of an audit by EPA. You may be able to spin yourself a job doing this type of work with your strengths in data management. Or working for a lab itself.
I was in your place...now I'm a Business Intelligence Consultant in the German Automobile industry! SAP BW/Reporting. Lots of opportunity here!
Not accounting at all but using the same skillset, health informatics is basically exactly what you described but working with data from a health system's EHR instead of money.
I showed myself as moderately competent at building small tools with Access/Excel and moved from being a call taker to a business analyst - not sure if that's a path you want to look into/head down, but it's certainly interesting!
I'm a systems analyst with a similar background at a major insurance company that is hiring, feel free to pm me
Investment banking or other financial services companies.
That group sounds awesome.
Also their Business Modeling group in Transaction Advisory Services. 
Any channel recommendation? 
Yes, please recommend some channels :)
Yeah I started at a company 9 years ago and did not know excel at all. Through google and finding ways of automating things I went from people thinking I'm excel god, to actually being an excel god.... well okay not a god, pretty darn good.  
Curious to understand why you have EY in amongst those companies...?
Could start with Excel is Fun
They have some pretty nifty data analytics technology from what I've heard (and a comment about it in this thread). 
I second ExcelIsFun by Mike Girvin. He is a wonderful teacher.

For VBA if you're interested, I recommend WiseOwl tutorials VBA. Incredibly thorough, and way better VBA teacher than every other I've ever seen.
Third(ing?) ExcelIsFun. 

Also, thanks for the WiseOwl rec. 
