How do you know when you can teach/tutor Excel?
If you can identify what every button on the ribbon does, and can very quickly identify what formula is used in a given situation, then you're in a position to teach Excel.

This is because knowledge and re-call is half the battle in Excel. Answering questions using that data is the other half.

Flair changed to discussion.
I taught Excel for many years along with the other Office apps, Auto CAD, Inventor, SQL and coding. Go into a local training provider and tell them that you are interested in becoming an instructor. Most of the time, they like to keep someone on hand to fill in for last-minute instructor drop-outs, and if you're good, they'll give you more work. 

When you talk to them, ask if you can review a copy of their courseware for the different levels of Excel that they offer. That will give you a good draw on what can be expected.

Sadly, there are many instructors out there that can tell you the exact excersise on page 32 and walk through it without the manual, but they are unable to give a practical solution to somone's issue if it's not in the book. If you know how to think in a problem solving way by putting the tools in the Excel toolbox together creatively, that's worth everything.
Ctrl+Shift+Enter Mastering Excel Array Formulas. This guys channel is on Excel. If you can repeat what he does then you have a lifetime career. All his documents are free. This guy honestly opened me up to programming beyond Excel and VBA. That's not even what his intention is. His use of excel is very similar to DBA.
I call most excel teachers / tutors the "Piranhas" if you look at local Community Colleges you'll see they charge $100 a chair for some of the most basic of the basic concepts. Review your local public library and see if they offer courses - what they consider - Beginner / Intermediate / Advanced you will almost be shocked with as well. Find a real world situation that people can sink their teeth into in the workplace that can easily be adapted for your class. That will stick more than teaching them relative positioning. Also Ctrl + T them all day long so they work with tables... enough with the cell ranges already.
I'm the Excel nerd in my office, and recently got asked to lead a professional development session on Excel. I'm just making it up as I go, but basically just compiled all the resources I've ever used in learning on my own and will break down the software as much as possible... Like what are you looking at when you open Excel for the first time... Hopefully to get to the point of VLOOKUPS. 

if you are asking this question then you are probably around/near my level with Excel. Some guys on here and on other forums are proper gurus, and you are measuring yourself against that to see whether you are worthy to teach what you know. - I gave up long ago achieving Guru status! But, from your post, is that your true objective?
To make $40 an hour is actually the objective, not to be an Excel Guru. 
We need to flip the conversation a bit. You need to ask, how can i leverage my current skill set to make $40 an hour. Excel is just a tool. A tool we all use as a convenient vehicle to deliver value added solutions to a business need - i would expect that if you can offer an employer a track record in assessing solutions in the light of all available options, but demonstrating a strong track record in solving those problems, in Excel or using other tools, then $40 an hour is there for you mate.
TL:DR don't pigeon hole yourself into an Excel teacher - ensure your professional offering is rounded to all you can actually provide
If you know more than the one you're teaching!
Do you mean excelisfun?
I will read his works!
> Ctrl + T them all day long so they work with tables... enough with the cell ranges already

Seriously! I didn't know about tables until I started my current job a year ago and now I use them in nearly every workbook (to be fair, I didn't use Excel before this job). Also: F2 and PasteSpecial:Values.
Wait so your office mates dont know vlookup?
hey how old are you? give me a number or range so i can get an idea 
I am one year out of college so Im not sure 40$ an hour is within range for me. I know a good amount of excel and vba. taught myself and used on the job. what does a 40$ an hour excel worker know really??? i have thought about writing an excel textbook in the future thats why i asked. also thought about teaching excwl because it is the most widely used tool for data work i know
thanks
excelsfun and yes, that guys stuff is awesome.
There's a lot of offices like that. 

My workplace has around 124 employees with about 35 in some form of office work or admin role. Only about 5 of us actively use Excel. 

I know more than all of them and not even 10% of what the average user of this subreddit knows.
The AUDITORS a company I worked for used didn't know how to use VLOOKUP.
Most of my office was the same way before I held group tutoring sessions.  Even if only one or two people per session truly grasp the concepts, that's one or two more people to help co-workers out when they need to do something they don't know how to do.  I can actually do my job now instead of everyone else's.
I legit just met 2 people who didn't know what format painter did....
The other day I taught one of my office mates how to make a chart in excel, and he's an experience mechanical designer (very good with SolidWorks, so definitely computer literate). It's not that the stuff is hard, it's just that a lot of people have kept their skill set to a fairly narrow scope
Honestly, for "consulting" type work and private lessons, $40/hr is not a big number. It certainly sounds like a lot when you're in your mid 20s, but the people paying you are used to hearing *much* bigger numbers.
A good excel user is an overall problem solver. Multiple different data sets in various forms. Being able to solve any problem using any technique available. There are several ways to solve any problem. Finding the most efficient and accurate way is what distinguishes the "pros" from the rest of the pack.
i can't quite compare as in the UK. I am biased because there are so many communities out there (ExcelForum, R/Excel, StackOverflow, OzGrid, Chandoo and many others) that offer advice and knowledge - monetizing that knowledge on its own is not something i have done. 
I suppose my point was that if you focus on that solely, you are gonna need to be a ninja to compete with these guys - in my personal opinion Excel provides one possible solution and if you prove yourself capable of delivering excel based solutions then you can deliver solutions in many applications - you shouldn't overlook the Business Analyst and even Project Management skills you are using to deliver your Excel products!
The long answer, I tried teaching some coworkers excel. At that point I had just taught myself VBA and spent pretty much everyday on excel. Learning the more advanced side of excel I found was a lot of trial and error since there are usually many ways to do one task. So them seeing how I did something was not as beneficial as if they were to figure it out on their own but teaching then basics and tricks to make things simpler was beneficial. So its hard to say when you're ready to teach someone but generally if you can write macros and use a large variety of formulas, that's a good rule of thumb. Since a lot of people have no idea of excel's potential.
How large of a company. It is difficult for me to believe... Well, I guess it depends on the job responaibilities
do youu mind me asking where this is!?
One of the largest in the finance sector. 
Are you still in Finance? Basically, I am asking if you found a better place to work than in the finance industry, where people know vlookups lol
Still in finance, still same problem lol
(Not having worked in the finance sector...) I think non-finance sectors that require serious quantitative work and employ people with formal quantitative backgrounds move away from excel into more analysis-focused programs (aka something closer to a standard programming language) vs spreadsheet-/table-focused programs (like excel).

That is, once you're at the point you need to use intermediate Excel functionality, you may well have decided to use a different tool. (I have no real data behind this claim, though.)
How is this a problem?

From a standpoint of job security, working in an office where you are easily one of the most productive due to the foresight and motivation to learn excel would be fantastic.

How could they ever let him go?
you didn't even say what tool so im taking your response as garbage
What? *Any* tool or programming language. Python, MATLAB, R, STATA, etc.

Excel is not designed to handle manipulating large arrays of data as arrays/matrices; proper programming languages/data analysis software is much better suited for the task. I say this coming from a neuroscience background (I can't imagine using Excel for that work), but most positions titled "data analyst" or the like list a lot of non-Excel software as a desired skill.
