Best Excel tutorials (YouTube, websites, blogs, etc.) for learning Corporate Finance (forecasting, budgeting, variance, etc.)
There's a textbook called financial modeling by simon benningina that is probably what you're looking for.
I do corporate finance for a living.  PM me anytime if you have questions.

I don't really know of any tutorials that are satisfactory TBH.  I think you have to build a base level of knowledge, know what you want from your budget, etc., then use your knowledge to build it.

What you build is going to depend so much on the whims of your CEOs that just using a template probably isn't going to work either.
 http://1337institute.com/ has Beginner Excel and Advanced Excel both were 99% off (was $1000 now $19?) but I don't think the discount is valid anymore.

 It's not bad the beginner series is very detailed to the point it's incredibly boring even if you know a few basics like formatting, simple formulas. But for anyone new to Excel it's perfect too bad they want $1,000 for each one.

 [Mr Excel](http://www.mrexcel.com/) is pretty good mainly message board based and on YouTube I find [ExcellsFun](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCkndrGoNpUDV-uia6a9jwVg) not bad he's very energetic and seems to know quite a bit.
not about excel, but Damodaran uploads his classes on Corporate Finance and Valuation to youtube:
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCLvnJL8htRR1T9cbSccaoVw/videos
[macabacus](http://www.macabacus.com) is very good for understanding a good DCF. The LBO one isnt complete yet though
http://www.asimplemodel.com - https://www.macabacus.com
Check out Udemy, they may have something 
Stickied for greater exposure.

Thanks
Can you tell us a little more about your current education level and what you hope to do? Looking at templates and models built by others is definitely worthwhile, but looking at a great P&L model is not all that useful if you don't know the business concepts or how the balance sheet relates to the income statement etc.
This is a little like asking for the best hammer seminars to learn how to design a house.
just looked into this. little pricey but looks awesome. thank you.
interesting. OK. was hoping for something more interactive (YouTube tutorials, etc.) but i'm not opposed to a book. 
i LOVE ExcelIsFun. great resource and i have him saved on my YouTube. 

i'll look into the others. thing is, i'm not really basic-level at Excel. more my understanding of how to model is at beginner level. 
this is great!
are those really used in F500 corporate finance though?
awesome. this is great. i've been to macabacus a few times but it seems like its more for investment bankers. 

am i missing something?
will do, thanks. 
bachelors science in business. looking to transition from an operations role at a bank into FP&A.

thanks. 
is it? well...just wanting to learn the basics. so, not sure where to start. 
I've found "mastering array" to be more beneficial in the long run vs short although I started learning arrays for a short term problem.
the DCF sure, its the backbone of all financial models, the LBO can be useful if for example there are multiple companies working together on a project and you want to evaluate each company's participation and rewards. 
Investment Banking is Finance and will teach you more than you need to know for corporate finance.  It will definitely help you conceptually.
