Free Udemy Course: How to double your salary with Excel
Salary=C3
=C3*2
Man, you sure talk a lot about salary... That word is everywhere.
Hey Sohail, a quick markdown tip; you notice how your "some of the things you will learn" list is rendering in one giant paragraph? Press return twice between each bullet point and they will render as separate lines. In other words, they should appear as double-spaced in the text editing box. 

Also, if you start them with "* " instead of "-", they will render as bullet points. Example:

* Item one

* Item two
This looks fantastic. I've been looking for something like this. Thanks, I'll let you know how it goes.
I was going to complain that there didn't seem to be much actual skill building in the tutorial but then actually read your post. A unique perspective that is not usually covered. Definitely going to look into this.
I'm an Operations Analyst that primarily uses Excel.  I'm going to take advantage of this.  Thank you!
[deleted]
I signed up.  I'm a graduate student getting dual masters(MBA/Finance and Taxation).  I've worked with excel for several years and just finished a VBA class.  I'm looking forward to taking the class and improving my marketability when I re-enter the job force.  Thanks for posting!

Thank you for this!

I recently started my career (fresh out of uni.) In my job role of processing, I picked up excel to automate my workload utilizing vba. As a result, I developed a filtering system to our fi's standard reports on a business associate/junior role! Before my probation, no less.

I look forward to watching the career strategy and psychology portion of the course.  
Commenting so I can look at this properly tomorrow! Looks extremely interesting! 
thanks so much, i'll check it out.
This looks interesting. While I will use excel for my possible internship, I will definitely check it out. I might learn something new. 
As someone who has very much been treading water for years, this looks interesting. Checking it out, thanks!
Who cares about salary?, tell more of what you will actually teach
This sounds great. For what kind of company do you work and what do you do for them? Still in investment banking?
Is it only free until the end of January? If we enroll in it before then can we watch it any time?
Just registered for this and planning on going through it today -- interesting stuff so far. Placeholder for further comment
> 40% Excel skills (including a crash course in VBA and automation - I am very pro-VBA for most professionals)

Have been looking for a VBA course. Thanks, I'll check it out. 
Do you plan to double it again by getting us to buy your course?
This looks to touch on some items that I've been curious about, regarding strategy in how to market my skills better and what more I should be learning outside my current role.  Going to dig into this this week, thanks Sohail! 
Can't have something be equal to two times itself unless it's 0
lol
That's the goal of the class, it's even in the title, haha.
I'm aware that when you mention the words money or salary you  sound cringe inducingly hypey but that fact does not change that Salary is still the biggest priority for most people. 

I don't shy away from it. I grew up poor (cue violin music) and made it my priority to not be poor. It took a lot of work and it's the driving factor for most of the middle and lower classes. I've spent over 10 years in my career working out what it takes to increase your salary and I'm sharing the most useful of it.
Excellent, much appreciated
Thanks and feel free to ask me any questions you may have. Fyi, I have started writing at www.earnandexcel.com/blog on the topic of becoming a better professional. There is a lean to Excel professionals but all professionals are welcome
Thanks. There simply aren't very many people who have my unique perspective on how Excel can help progress your career. I have been teaching Excel offline informally and formally (more recently) for about 5 years but once I tell people about my career trajectory, all they seem to care about is what they can do to get a similar outcome and only some of that is about the Excel
Yes, but it's a bit deeper than that. Excel can be more than a means to an end f you sell your abilities correctly (I discuss in the course). You get promoted (position or salary) for your perceived commitment and behaviour. Firing is not on the agenda, it's something I pretty much NEVER discuss. In fact, even coasting (not progressing) is bad in my book. Your career has a window, do the right things and ensure it is always in ascension 
My pleasure
You have started your career well my friend. Sounds like you can ignore the VBA part of the course. Let me know how you get on
And know that you are not alone. Analytical professionals are very prone to 'treading water' and staying in comfort zones. We are huge assets to the companies and managers we work for for 2 reasons:
1. We're not exactly stupid, i.e. we are very good at doing what we do so they love us
2. We don't rock the boat and are very compliant so they love us

The combination of intelligence and compliance is what makes analytical professionals good foot soldiers. The problem with being a good foot solider in capitalism is that one day you wake up and realise you're abilities, intellect, work ethic and good nature have been taken advantage of. 
I was fortunate to have mentors who taught me these things years ago and now I'm on a mission to create a generation of analysts who know their worth
...plenty of people care about salary
I have been freelancing (contracting) mostly in the financial services (Investment, Retail and Wholesale Banking), Earlier on in my career, I was doing government work which was okay but underpaid. I also did Management Consulting which has a poor 'hourly rate', ie the amount of time you are expected to put in doesn't match the rewards. Ultimately my career went in the direction of project management within Banking. But Project Management is quite vast on big projects, i.e. there are different roles within
Yup, that's how it works. Once you enroll, it's yours until the end of time (not exactly).
Great stuff! can I ask what your level of Excel skills are and what you do professionally? Can PM me if you wish to respond. I ask just to gauge the kind of folks signing up. As I said, I'm quite successful at helping offline, helping online is relatively new to me. Many Thanks 
Please bear in mind that I believe in the power of quick wins. I completely remove any need to learn jargon and other confusing elements. My aim for the crash course is to give people skills and confidence almost immediately. One of my proudest moments as a teacher years ago was when I improved the Excel skills of a beauty therapist (who wanted to break in to the corporate world). I got her skills up rapidly and got her programming VBA in under an hour with this approach. She was very bad at traditional academics. The right approach made all the difference to her. 
Offering the course for free won't take me far in that endeavor :-)
+1

The second part was supposed to be on the next line.   #redditfail
I grew up rich and I'm trying to make it my priority to help the poor but god damn am i destined for poverty. 
You're welcome. You switched to "asterisk text", but if you use "asterisk space text" instead, it will format like mine.

    * formats

    *does not format

Turns to:

* formats

*does not format
Awesome! I'll check it out.


> The problem with being a good foot solider in capitalism is that one day you wake up and realise you're abilities, intellect, work ethic and good nature have been taken advantage of. 

Wow, that last bit is almost exactly what I fear most about my job. 

>Analytical professionals are very prone to 'treading water' and staying in comfort zones.

Yes! This was me at a previous job ... and is me now at my current job. You become indispensable ... and are rewarded with 5% annual raises. 
not everyone seems to care about the necessary skills for that tough
That sounds interesting. How did you go abound finding a job that is such greatly dependent on Excel as yours? I've never found a vacancy that requested solely Excel skills. It was always a 'side-skill' if you know what I mean. 
What do project managers do in a bank?
Great, thanks!
Most people give up on VBA because of the confusion around learning jargon and the VBE editor. I think those things can come later, This is a shame for many professionals, who would benefit tremendously from VBA skills. If you check the course out, I justify why VBA skills go beyond just your job and can in fact help your overall career to progress more rapidly than others (Hint: its about freeing up your time, then doing the right things with your free'd up time , but check the course out for more explanation.)
Salary=C3  
=C3*2

Put two spaces at the end of a line if you want a hard break.  
(How to double your salary with reddit Markdown formatting)
So... social worker?
even better!
That's true, so it's kinda neat that OP's course seems to go into both of those realms
Any role involving reporting/intelligence will have a heavy dependency on Excel. Early on in my career I was working on large transformation/change programmes where you have lots of streams of work (projects) happening to meet one/several strategic objectives. Tracking these in terms of project progress, planning, finances, resources etc are crucial so senior management and other stakeholders can be given a view of how things are progressing. Excel (and PowerPoint for presentation) is the ultimate vessel for this. Many other programmes have come along but ultimately everything ends up in Excel because of the flexibility of it. Excel is NOT a spreadsheet, it's a problem solving tool. 
Okay so banks are the kind of organisation rife with change. If you are not prepared to change/improve you will lose especially in the ultra competitive business of banking and ESPECIALLY in recent times there has been a lot of disruption from the fin tech space (payments, peer to peer lending, trading initiatives etc is creating non banking alternatives). 
This means Banks are in a state of change, all banks constantly have CTB work going on (Change the Bank) where tech is being improved. The change is always sponsored from the business, the change is managed by Project Managers (who work with IT and the Business). Believe it or not, the best PMs don't have great banking knowledge, that's for Business Analysts who work along side them. PMs almost have to be removed in their thinking from details in order to not compromise delivery dates and budgets. 
Its not just IT/tech change, since 2008 regulatory change has had a massive impact on Banking and many project are reg driven. These always take priority over strategic change and while not the sexiest area, it's a very safe and lucrative space to build your career.
Oh,

I know...

I just didn't do

it.
...mebe... mebe...
To build on your other point about 'side skill', ultimately you want your Excel to take a back seat. I haven't really used Excel much in my day job for over 2 years. I have teams of people who do that for me. The point is that you need to evolve in your career and being 'the Excel expert' is good initially, after a while, you get typecast and senior people don't want Analysts in their company. Excel was a stepping stone to bigger things: Project Management then Programme Management (managing multiple projects). However there are lots of roles that will be dependent on Excel Reporting Analyst, MI Analyst, Data Analyst, Resource/HR Analyst, PMO are the biggest ones but you will find these in bigger organisations who have budgets for change/transformation programmes. Also, you ideally want these roles rather than say Excel Developer because there is better scope for career evolution.
No no  
You're still not  
doing it right
Thanks!
