I want to learn excel and have a certification(s) to put on my resume, where o i start?
Reminder:

Please kindly read the sidebar before making a post - the first link in the sidebar is to a learning megathread.
Here's a list of things in Excel that I believe will put you ahead of the curb. My advice is you google/youtube each one and check them off as you go: 

Basic Functions:
left -
right -
mid -
find -
if -
and -
or -
sum -
sumproduct -
sumif -
sum -
sumifs -
average -
averageif -
npv -
rate -
fv -
count -
counta -
vlookup -
hlookup -
offset -
match -
index -
indirect

Nested Functions:
offset(match -
sum(offset(match -
vlookup(indirect(match -
index(match -
if(and( -
mid(find

Other things in excel to consider:
goal seek -
data tables -
pivot tables -
data validation -
conditional formatting
I'm no expert, but I don't think there's a widely-recognized one worth anything. I just googled [Microsoft's certification](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/learning/exam-77-420.aspx) (third party administered but I guess the most official).

There's less than 20 skills and here's the last one, which is as complicated as it gets:

>Inserting text boxes; inserting SmartArt; inserting images; adding borders to objects; adding styles and effects to objects; changing object colors; modifying object properties; positioning objects

It's a joke.
Excelisfun YouTube channel.
I wouldn't trust any course that claims to be able to do this. 

Start with free beginner courses.  One or two.  Then a free intermediate course.  Then start looking at advanced courses and consider paying for them,  but that's really not needed if you're good and self teaching via tutorials.  Only then look to certification 
Go to Udemy and search for Excel courses on there. I just bought a VBA course and so far it has been great. Right now the whole site is having a huge new years sale on courses - everything is $10.
Check out excelexposure.com, I think they have a good flow to their lessons and it's pretty easy to follow. I am at the intermediate level where I knew a lot of the material already, and even I learned a thing or two from it.
You will start and end with the internet. Give yourself a small project to do in excel... then do it. Then a more complicated project... then do it. Then get more and more complicated until you've done everything you can think of.

On my Resume I put Excel Ninja. So far when someone questions it I ask them for a computer with excel on it and I process to rock their world.
Techonthenet.com is a great resource
I learned from [this book](http://www.amazon.com/Microsoft-Office-Excel-2010-Approach/dp/0077331214) in a community college class (self led, no instructor) and not only loved it, I aced the class and amaze others with it. You could easily spend 1-2 hrs/day on this book and become an expert in a few weeks.
Use the program, go through all the toolbars at the top, familiarise yourself with it and then, once you understand what it all does and played with some tables to the point where you know what everything is called. Look some tutorials up about formulas.
What do you like to do? Hobbies? Interests?

Giving yourself a project will give you some skin in the game, a problem you want to solve, a task you want to accomplish. I learned a lot of what I use in Excel for the purpose of manipulating baseball statistics.

lynda.com
That's all I need to know in the real world? What the hell am I going to do with all this useless VBA knowledge?!
Do you have some beginning courses you can recommend? 
This site is what I learned on (on top of everything I learned back in grade ten, on what was probably excel 97 version), and It's quite great. Everywhere is going to have the basic knowledge, but this site is very clear and concise. should be at the top of the page IMO.
Could you elaborate on what you do to "rock their world?" With a blank spreadsheet it seems hard to demonstrate a lot of things.
One thing I hate about new excel, new programs in general, even technology as a whole these days, is the reliance on icon-based menus instead of text-based. Microsoft is pretty good, but apple and android are huge culprits of using completely non-intuitive icons.
You seen any specifically good courses on here?
I thought [this video class was good](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLrRPvpgDmw0nh4BBxqjcsnbB4ME4JjzfJ). I watched all 50 videos in the last couple of weeks. Note there is a more beginner course he mentions, so if you need that, it's likely on his channel. He has 2,500 Excel videos!

But note "mastery" is a high bar and Excel doesn't exist in a vacuum. If someone I interviewed said they were a master with Excel, they better know how to pull data from my SQL servers with the query tools, create Pivot Tables from our data from our multiple Sharepoint sites, and know DAX functions and the Power[Pivot/Query/View] tools inside-out. So practice with all the tools available if you want to get a job where Excel is your primary application.
I keep hearing about the Power tools.  I'm interested in learning more, but it's hard to know where to get started.  Do you have any recommendations?  What do you suggest focusing on to get started?
Start with PowerPivots. Pivot tables are one of the most useful tools Excel offers and that will probably help out the most in actual job functionality.

I don't have any suggestions for classes or books, unfortunately. I'm still learning myself, so Google would be the only thing I know for sure to look at.
I actually don't, as I've only played with it a few times. To me (a novice at it), Power Pivot appears little more than a front-end to Pivot Tables and relationships which can be done without Power tools. Power View is cool, and I can tell there's awesome stuff there, but I don't use it at work, and I don't have anything cool at home to integrate with. 
