Not a question, just a huge thank you to this community.
Yeah, it is truly a great community, no doubt about it; and improving your Excel skills is obviously always welcomed by the employers. Just wait till you get the hang of VBA and start automating the sh\*t of everything. People will hate you for taking away their jobs! :D (I'm half joking, but that's what I ended up doing in my previous role, I made 10 people obsolete -_-).

> I hope I can somehow repay you guys

Try to beat /u/eirunning85 in Clippy Points this month ;)
That's great to hear, but don't think of stopping there. You never end learning Excel.

Try your best to practice and excel at Power BI, PowerPivot, Pivot Tables (Pivot Chart) and VBA. You'll be a real king of Excel.
100% my favorite subreddit. I've learned so many and everyone is eager to teach and answer questions from the most noob question to the most complex. A+++
On to /r/VBA with you!  And then maybe learn an actual, comprehensive programming language too.  (Not that I don't love VBA's utility with ms office, it's just lacking some basic stuff most other languages have and the syntax is sometimes obtuse)
Nothing Major to add, but discovering this community few weeks ago really helped with some VBA issues I had this past month.

Great group of folks, and very knowledgeable.
Congrats man! I am the same as you. I also posted here last year about my success because of Excel. I'm on my way now on training a few people about Basic Excel,I now spend most of my time learning VBA or watching excel tricks. Keep it up!
Thanks to this subreddit i saved my company 50-60 hours of time last week alone. I too have now become the excel guy around the office
its amazing how many people dont know how to use excel
Happy to help! Everything I learned in Excel was because I was lazy too. Really didn't want to keep repeating tedious tasks so invested the time I saved into learning better formulas and better VBA.

39k users isn't that small a community (ok, maybe small compared to /r/Cats, but until /r/CatsDoVBA this is the place to be.
Don't forget  /u/rnelsonee ;)
Your not an excel brat until you have automated yourself out of a job.
I'm starting to use vba here and there, and wish I learned this via another way. I'm often editing already written code to fit my needs, but I don't completely understand everything that happens. I hope I find time to hang on reddit during work hours ;) I'll help where I can. 
 Sometimes you feel that its a different forum compared to most on reddit. Everyone is nice and helpful here. Kudos.
I started using autohotkey to script out the repetitive computer processes we do in the billing department. I know what you mean.
This is true. My teammates hate me for only working an hour when I am doing a 9 hour shift. Rest of my shift I'm just walking around or playing PS3 at the recreation area. VBA is the real shit. 
Thanks for the comment :) I'm going to dig into powerpivot, powerquery and vba :) pivottables are already a daily used part of excel! handy stuff!!
> an actual, comprehensive programming language too

YOU TAKE THAT BACK!!
Meh. I've asked questions on /r/VBA and they are not nearly as responsive or knowledgeable, but then again, /r/excel is 10x larger than /r/VBA.
I'm not sure how I didn't know this existed, thanks for the tip!
Oh! I didn't know that sub exists. Here I go!
Great to hear that!! Good job :)
Heh :D Good for us! too bad the 50-60 hours saved don't get paid to you. that's my main issue. because work keeps coming, even if you take 50 hours of work away. something new pops up ;)
were going to overtake /r/ramen soon! 
Yup, he kicked my butt last month!  Hoping I can win this one :)  But seems my current employer is finally starting to get me involved in some work (after 3.5 months here), so I may not be on as much.  We shall see!

And in response to OP, this is an awesome story!  Keep learning!
No, that's where you stop automating.
You are living the dream
anytime man. My learning approach to Excel was similar to yours. Upper management saw the potential of data crunching (I called it data torture) and promoted me to an analyst data position - but that was years ago.

However, the learning I grasped was definitely used in my actual position. Just don't stop learning even when you think you have learned it all. Practice at anytime!
bee tee dubs, VB.Net isn't that much of a stretch from VBA. 

^^I'm ^^just ^^sayin,
Sub is basically dead.
Maybe .... Maybe.... Maybe we can merge with them! Ramen, the fuel of students and late night hackers everywhere!!!
Thank you for all the help :) even if it wasn't directly me you helped. 
You guys are awesome. best of luck with your job! 
I believe in a continuous learning curve. I continue to be a lazy fuck, so I just keep on taking on challenges that make me do less work in the end. 
