Was going to ask a question about a metric clock, solved it while I was typing the question, so posting my solution instead.
Haha, glad you got it worked out!

And just to be clear, since I'm not sure how exactly metric time works, just letting you know if you see 08:35:33.22, that means it's 83.5% through the day (so about 8:05 PM). I'd imagine that's how metric time works (10 hours in a day) so I think you're all set. Although I think you can drop the ROUNDDOWN if you wanted.

I like the NOW()-TODAY(), it's intuitive. I use MOD(NOW(),1)) or NOW()-INT(NOW()), both of which are less intuitive/harder to read that your solution.
Yeah I'm a big fan of marking time with a metric clock, it's a shame it never caught on. That is exactly how a metric clock works. 10 hours in a day, 100 minutes in an hour, 100 seconds in a minute. 100,000 seconds in a day. Really simple to do math with.

I could drop the rounddown, but then if the time shows 23.5 milliseconds, then my clock will display 24 milliseconds, which is a little inaccurate.

Not that it makes much of a difference, but I am a perfectionist.

But then INT is much more simple and has the same effect. I changed it to:

    =INT((NOW()-TODAY())*10000000)

Thanks for the help!
"which is a little inaccurate"

I'd argue it's about as accurate as you need for an excel based time?  Especially if you also care about the number of hours (ie aren't timing a couple of VBA functions to see which one is fastest)
~~You can also just format the cell with "hh:mm:ss.000" to get the same result~~

Wait, nevermind. That will format normal time, not metric time.
Doesn't INT(NOW()-TODAY()) give you the integer, in this case 0? I think you want the part after the decimal: so either without the INT or use MOD(NOW(),1). 
Oh it's not used for anything quite so interesting.

I just wanted to see a metric clock because "I wonder what time it is in metric right now."

Which means being a millisecond off doesn't matter at all. But I know it's there, and that I can just put in that tiny function to fix it, so it bothers me until I add it. Does that make sense? It's more about how I feel than what it does.
Try pasting that formula into Excel, it works.

That's what the "*10000000" is for. It places hours, minutes, seconds, and milliseconds to the left of the decimal. Then INT clears the rest.
Makes perfect sense.

In my day job I sometimes see people getting worked up over numbers to 8 or 9 significant figures and there's no way the inputs and calculations are that accurate hence why I have an almost reflex reaction when I see people trying to use spurious accuracy for anything meaningful.
If you're trying to get to the hour, minute and second of the day, how about just using =NOW() and then custom format as hh:mm:ss.00?
This is for a metric clock, meaning 10 hours a day, 100 minutes an hour, 100 seconds a minute.
