Question to the Financial Analysts out there (those who work in IBs or HFs). Suppose someone wiped away all your knowledge about Financial Modeling, what video series/book would you get right away?
Ex-IB / PE guy - BIWS is good in my opinion. Many analysts learn through TTS as part of training. I would recommend a combo of something like TTS/ BIWS / etc, Macabus website, Investment Banking by Rosenbaum (or something like that...),  and some other valuation and tax / accounting resources. 

Specifically for excel- rip out your F1 key, unplug your mouse, and learn to do everything through shortcuts. Learn how to color code for assumptions, links, etc. learn how to check and audit models, including your own. Learn how to make things clean, easy to follow, and well commented / footnoted. It should be easy for an associate to pick up your work and understand it almost immediately. 

Not specific to excel - I'm much more interested in your ability to explain to me -why- you model something the way you do (why did you put 1x Mezz and why did you include PIK or understanding why purchase accounting works for an opening balance sheet) and how you research what you don't know vs. how quickly you can model. Working 100 hours a week means one of two things will happen: A. You'll get really fast at modeling so you can sleep for a couple hours a night or B. You won't, and you'll burn out or get let go

Just guessing based on the question (target schools end up feeding all of this type of stuff down each year through upperclassman and recent grads) but If you're trying to get to IB from a non-target school - your focus should be 100% on A. understanding the underlying concepts of banking, valuation and accounting and B. networking like every hour you're not in class. Totally doable, but it's a long path with slim odds.
[Sal Khan](https://www.khanacademy.org) has some great tutorials on financial math and finance/economic concepts, not to mention basic math. 
Rosenbaum and Pearl - "Investment Banking" is a great book and very practical

I did some Googling and found [this course called 'Level 2 Breaking in Wall Street - Learn financial modeling'](https://breakingintowallstreet.com/biws/breaking-into-wall-street-courses/). Is this any good you think?
If youre looking into breaking into the HF world or just finance in general, you should look at the CFA. Its a charter that is highly regarded in certain areas of finance. It's not that prevalent in the IB/PE world but is in my opinion the best academic thing you can do besides an MBA from a top tier program. 

Its not easy by any means and you will not have a life for multiple years, but it will be worth it.

I am currently studying for Level II (there are 3 levels) and am available for any questions. We also have our own subreddit! r/cfa
Angels in the Outfield, or Cool Runnings; both outstanding films that will temporarily distract you from your current issue. 
[deleted]
Current IB here, definitely agree with the rosenbaum book being the staple. And I still (in my third year) use macabacus as a resource. TTS did our training class, but I prefer to use WST's macros. 
Agree with Training the Street recommendation, I lived in excel for almost a decade prior to taking their financial modeling fast track course, very comfortable with all things excel and VBA, was promptly blown away by the amount of time I wasted using the mouse. 
For excel specifically- no, it's not a highly academic thing, you learn more on the job. however the subject matter (accounting concepts, finance, etc)  would be helpful to learn in an academic setting. For how do I get into finance, this is off the track from excel, but... 

finance is a pretty broad field. I can speak to IB (also trading and PE too I guess), but other areas might differ. Honestly, for IB at a bulge bracket or good MM bank, the only real way it would work is going to get a MBA at a top program and then recruiting as a 1st year associate. There isn't a path as a pre MBA analyst at 30 from an unrelated field. However, nor do you there to be one- we slept under our desks multiple nights in a row, worked 48 hour days, and were in the office 7 days a week every week other than thanksgiving and Christmas Day. No way I'd want to do that or be able to make it now that I'm in my late 20s.


Don't let that stop you though! The best bankers are the ones that had everyone tell them there was no way, said f you back and then just do anything to get there.
[deleted]
Can you talk about what IB analysts do after they work a couple of years doing 70-80 hour weeks? I have heard that a lot leave and move to consulting or HF, and then life is a little more chill there. Could you speak to what are the career path for I banking?

Thanks.
Ah, not to be to negative about it! Life is made up of exceptions to the rule, it just takes some tenacity and creativity. If it's something you're serious about, get on LinkedIn, see how you can connect to someone in the industry through a friend of a friend, and just start asking people to spend 10-15 minutes to talk to you about their experience and then end the conversation with 'is there anyone else you could introduce me to that you think I should speak with'. Worst case is you're no worse off!
 
It's like being a DI college athlete, 90% of analysts are going to go on to do something other than IB after 2 to 3 years. A few BB rock stars will go straight to a HF, some others to the Mega PE shops. Some to MM or smaller fund PE shops. Some to related fields like a debt fund. Many end up going to a real company - often something like corp development for F500 type corp or to work for a startup. Many will do 2 banking, 2 of buyside or something else, and then head to get their MBA 

All of them are, to some degree, a bit chiller, especially corp dev, but moving to something like an associate at a PE fund isn't -that- different from banking. If I, on average, worked 90-100+ p/w  for banking, I probably worked 80-85 for PE - but the work is more enjoyable and flexible (side note, but no way you're working 70-80 a week for banking unless you're in a weird product group like DCM or ECM).
Great, thanks.

I am graduating college in a few month, and working as FA for one of the F500, wanted to see whats life like on the I banking side.
