[TIP] How to display values as Million in Excel?
Outstanding!! I didn't know about this and, in my job, this will be very very useful. Thanks for sharing the knowledge.
Just a heads up that first \# in there got interpreted as a heading symbol. So it should be something like `0.0#,,` (or similar).

But yeah, each comma removes 1,000. And this is really cool, because it still stores the number in millions so you don't have to multiply it back by a million to do math on it.
This is a great tip, and one I've been using for a couple years. Beware doing this with shared spreadsheets as this will end up confusing people who aren't familiar with this feature. I used to use it everywhere, but got tired of trying to explain it to people so I've cut back.
Dear Garam kela I have commented negatively on your joke posts but this one is absolutely too good.... Hats off.... 

And whats with the hot banana? 
I wish I had millions of anything to deal with in my job :(
Great tip, I use this all the time to show millions of dollars in charts. A chart with a data label saying $1.2M is much easier to read than a data label saying $1,182,346.
Huh. (That thing I say when I learn something new)
For example in Finland we have comma as a decimal point and a space as a thousand separator. Just replace the points with commas and commas with spaces.
Does that mean you can also scale up something? For some reason, the data we have has been changed from 1,000,000 to 1,000.0 but is actually still millions. I bet this means I can modify the formula above to change this...maybe ##0,000,000?


This seems dangerous for spreadsheets you don't have total control over.  I can easily see this being misinterpreted leading when someone else unknowingly uses your formatted value in a downstream calculation.
Thanks for my first reddit gold
Just tried for a desi username.. 
Maybe a nice chesterfield or an ottoman.
try working in millimeters, microns, milligrams, basically any small unit. and you'll have soooo many of it.
I'm like a few million microns tall. 
Yeah but in charts it's much simpler, Format Axis -> Display Units -> Millions.
Then you better read the link in my post for more details
You just dated yourself there. Oh damn, so did I. Haven't you always wanted a monkey?
Well, I guess I work in millions of pounds, but I think of weight in tons.
We would just eat more Kraft Dinner.
