Cortana for Excel prototype. What do you think?
My jaw....... it dropped to the floor... 
Wow... wow. This is by far the most futuristic and impressive thing I've ever seen been done on a computer. 

Sorry I have no useful input to give you, this is just fantastic. 
Great work! 
You have transcended onto a new plane of Excel. Guide us.
Finally Excel can respond when I scream at it!
Wow..this looks so cool, almost futuristic. Is a trial version available?

Also, changed the flair to 'Advertisement'.
What Magickery is this? - Thats some next level voodoo.
That is absolutely amazing. Sign me up!
Incredible 
This is pretty awesome man. Seriously congratulations.
Wow, I'm speechless after seeing that. Holy fuck!
This is excellent.
This is amazing. How did you do it if you don't mind me asking?
Pretty freakin awesome,  would be cool to have her make nested if statements. 
I might as well call myself Jon Snow of Excel and VBA, because after seeing your demo video, I feel that *I know nothing*.
LOL "Wow, that is so annoying" I know, right?
Wow! This is really cool!
I am in disbelief...  This is amazing..  Quick question are you incorporating vlookup for example?  Just to mention one of the few must know  excel functions. 
My bro, you are a fucking beast. I really like where your head is at. 
I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/automate] [Cortana for Excel prototype. What do you think? (x-post from r\/Excel)](https://np.reddit.com/r/Automate/comments/47i2t1/cortana_for_excel_prototype_what_do_you_think/)

[](#footer)*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose?to=/r/TotesMessenger))*

[](#bot)
I send my workbooks to my coworkers. Here's my dream: "Cortana, could you send this workbook in a reply to my last email from Captain Keys?"

Good luck!
You should consider marketing this for accessibility purposes if you haven't already. More so than being just cool, it could really help people with difficulty using a computer but who may still be active and want to use excel for their personal life or business
This is more ominous than awesome (as awesome as it is)...  How long will it take until executives will be able to completely eliminate my department by downloading an app?  =/
This is great..... Where can I invest in your company? I have a feeling Microsoft will aquire this for a handsome sum of money. 
wow. mindblowing

Functions I'd like:

distribute rows - creates all rows so you can see all the text within them

standardize formatting - sets the same font, size, colors and such to the same - could ask end user if that includes headers, highlights, etc. 

counts/percentage of entries: count number of X, or X and Y, or not X and not Y

add, remove rows/columns (probably on the list, but that means you're on the right track!)

highlight header row

filter by row A, ascending

format rows, format rows except first X columns

clean up my graph/chart (make a graph simple to view by reducing unnecessary visuals.)

Pivot tables - that's a rabbit hole

simple math on groups (rows, columns, tables)

remove duplicates

Show duplicates

Show unique
Awesome stuff man!
Very interesting.  Clearly Cortana understands your commands better than she understands mine.
Wow. That's some amazing work.

In terms of commands, I'd like a simple way to separate by first/last name, the ability to sort columns, filter columns ("Make a list of all students who are in 9CC and have above 10 behaviour points"), find duplicates and merge them together, then a load of pivot table style stuff like "Show me all girls who got below C in English and are Pupil Premium" where it could understand which columns I'm talking about based on the data within them or the headings. Also custom formatting "Make all students below a C red and all above a B gold". Also the ability to query the data for a direct answer would be cool "What percentage of Boys achieved a B or above in Maths" that kind of thing. Some kind of notification of outliers and a question as to what to do with it would be nice "I've found 5 blank fields/fields with text instead of numbers/etc. what would you like me to do with them? [Leave them/make them blank/can you convert to numbers?/etc]"

Then we can sack our Data Manager :P
This is awesome and exactly what I originally envisioned. 
Can you think about the following for future versions?

Pivot table automation
VLOOKUP and results output into email automation

Conditional formatting 

Chart automaton 

Workbook formatting into csv 

Like it has been stated before in this thread, you totally have an amazing talent and skill level to accomplish this. Hopefully these ideas are useful. 

THANKS!!!
Thanks, I appreciate it.
I thought your comment were sarcastic...

Then I watch the video.
Lol, thanks. I'll do my best...
Hey, Thanks. I'm working toward a beta in about 2-3 months... 
Not at all. Which part are you wondering about? 
Hmm, I already have her doing some basic functions (saving it for the next video), but I can certainly add nested IF statements.     I'm assuming you'd want to say something like: "Hey Cortana, in (range), if, (range) 'equals' X, then return Y, else if, etc..." 
Thank you... Yeah, I plan on incorporating Vlookup, as well as with an explanation of how to use it (if asked).  
Thanks, I hadn't thought of that, could be useful in that way.
That's up to you. Adapt or die. 
Thanks for the feedback. Got a few of those done already. How do you think people would want to see duplicates/unique... highlight or have Cortana point them out, or both?
How do we sign up? 
What did you program it in?
That would be pretty cool.

Fundamentally, at some point you'll need to ask yourself if your implementation is actually easier for a person who didn't previously create macros.  To me, the following is as readable as your comment:

>     if (condition) {
>      PerformAction(param);
>     }

But even something that simple would require significant explanation to someone who had never written code before. It begs the question: *is this really how people think?* And if it isn't, is there a better way to say it?

What you're doing is awesome; can't wait to see what comes of it. Some of the above has been on my mind a while and I felt compelled to share. :)
Yep that would be awesome! 
Maan seriously this is something that if you implement would be life changer especially when doing double vlookup..

I depend  a lot on excel.. And I have a couple  of recommendation I could suggest since  I do heavy data analytics. 

But..  Like I said previously.. Thanks for putting the time and effort into this.  There is people out there that admire this kind of effort.  If nobody has ever told you how talented you are.  Then I am right now.  Keep it up!  You rock! 
The problem with the "Adapt or Die" argument is that a vast majority of people *will* adapt, but still die...  In the end (hopefully later rather than sooner), 90%+ of the field will be wiped out and most of the 10%- that survive will be due more to nepotism than skill.
How would the point out system work?

I don't know how others work, but maybe this?

"Cortana, could you *action* the duplicates in row A with yellow?" - action could be bold, remove, copy, ect. 

"Cortana, could you highlight the duplicates in row A?"

"Cortana, could you highlight the rows of the duplicates of the selection in yellow?"
You can sign up for updates here: (www.officeautomata.com/cortana-excel/)
F# on the backend, C# for the add-in. Also, SQL, XML & SRGS...
I would like to know as well.

That's a really good point. I had similar thoughts for the auto-macro generation action. I'll ask around with some of my non-power excel user friends, see how they think. I can certainly program multiple grammar routes to the same function. PM me if you'd like to discuss more...
Thanks, I really appreciate it. PM me if you have more ideas, always looking for was to make it better
In roles where I've been Excel-heavy, my value has been my ability to convert raw data into compelling arguments. This is not something Cortana will be able to do any time soon. If Cortana can do what you do, it's time to ask whether you're really working at peak ability. If not, it might be time to start before "Adapt or Die" becomes a reality for you.
<3 C# & F#
Totally Agree. This is amazing work OP- I feel like the biggest thing here is that you are transcending *programming* in excel and bringing it the masses, if you could almost reinvent the basic "syntax" of excel into "grammar" of excel. 
A most interesting line of enquiry. 
Surely must be psychology science papers. On this to advise... 
I'm not talking about Cortana specifically nor do I think it will be "soon" (I'm not even talking about Excel)....  But make no mistake, that *is* where we are headed and this is the beginning.
Yeah, F# is amazing. Couldn't have done it without it. 
The historical record shows that change and innovation is normal, not threatening, and not worthy of panic. That's not to say one should ignore change. On the contrary, learning how to learn, learning how to create and provide value, and teaching others how to do the same is how you can stay relevant. 

Refrigeration changed the culture completely in a very short amount of time. Many lost their jobs, and companies went out of business overnight. But new opportunities arose with those same changes. Rather than fretting over learning things that one day will lose their value, I have found that keeping my eyes open to new opportunities to provide value or solve problems, and continuing to learn the new skills required to accomplish those thing is what keeps my job interesting, prolongs the period of me being useful, and helps me stay optimistic. I feel empowered when I'm looking for new opportunities rather than fearing inevitable change. 
Dude, one thing to consider.

Many enterprises are going to use Windows 7 for many more years to come, due to legacy software issues. Your software is amazing, but Windows 10 will not be a standard for a few more years to come.
