Create an Awesome Excel Splash Screen For Your Spreadsheet
Eggsalent. I can force people to relive the mid 2000s when flash animations were on every site intro. 

Did not know how to do this. Thanks. I hope to make you proud with my entrances. 
Need to do this for every spreadsheet I plan to share with the boss. 
So going to try this! Not that I need anything else to slow my power pivot down haha. Looks cool!!
The hug of reddit strikes again
Hug of death!
Thanks for sharing :)
While it would be annoying to put it in every s/s I create, I think it will be a nice cherry on top for the most important ones.

Thanks for sharing Ryan!
I just tried it and it looks great. Just one thing, I noticed the splashscreen pops only if macros are allowed.
So what would be the general consensus of adding these to workbooks you create at work? I mean I would love to stamp my best work with this but in general it's not necessary because everyone knows I made the tools to begin with. The copy write belongs to the company in all cases so it's kind of redundant to add that to this splash screen. It would be cool as he'll tho
This is awesome! I will try on Monday, thanks for sharing!
This looks fun! I'm going to try it out now.
Very cool!!!!
Really cool. This may be a silly question, but how do you change the font size in a label or a text box? 

EDIT: Nvm. I have a lot to learn. 
commenting for reference. 
Mirror?
link please
Commenting so i can find this on Monday 
No, don't. That's not what Excel is for.
does developer mode need to be activated in recipient's excel to view that? 
Commenting for reference.
Love this thanks op. Goin to be working on adding these to few of the databases I run today. Ur website is great as well :) 
This is awesome! Good way to assume credit on the spreadsheets you end up creating for everyone.

Is there a way to lock down VBA so they can't open it up and edit it?
The link is not working, please check
Add dickbutt when you're ready for a new job.
Great idea, tommy290! That seems like a great way to make your work stand out.
Write code to read the employee database (if you have access to it) and if you are terminated, don't allow the spreadsheet to load :)

Actually that is illegal as fuck, but it is nice to think about sometime.
Let me know what you think! I'm curious to see what kind of design you come up with!
You're quite welcome, dontcountmeout:) I hope you enjoy it
Yea of course, and they should be off by default anyways so this is neat but not practical.
I agree - it might not be very practical to add the copyright line to a product you made at work, but you could consider putting a version number, build number, release date or software quality assurance number instead! 
You're very welcome, jacqueschirekt! If you run into trouble getting it to work on Monday, let me know and I'll be happy to help:)
Hi, I'm sorry you were having trouble loading the page. It looks like the server went down for a few hours. It should be back up now, so try it again and let me know if it still fails!
Hi, I'm sorry you were having trouble loading the page. It looks like the server went down for a few hours. It should be back up now, so try it again and let me know if it still fails!
Hi theniks07! Developer mode doesn't need to be enabled, but macros will need to be enabled.
Hi, I'm sorry you were having trouble loading the page. It looks like the server went down for a few hours. It should be back up now, so try it again and let me know if it still fails!
1. Have the image load from a file in an obscure directory for all your spreadsheets.  
2. Obfuscate the directory string.  
3. On your last day of work, replace the image with dickbutt.  
4. ????  
5. Profit!
Or to other people's spreadsheets. 
These can be fun too, I put a goliath spider as one a while back to fuck with my arachnophobic coworker.
Thanks, the site is up. Could you provide a link to your workbook, so that we can download and see how it works. Also, doesn't the end user need to enable macros for this thing to get activated?
Haha that's absolutely hilarious
Not cool, dude!
