What's the add-in you use mostly ?
The person sitting next to me at work. He is more knowledgeable them me.
ASAP Utilities
Power Pivot and Power Query.  Why use anything else?
Power Pivot and Power Query.  I guess technically they are no longer add ins.
Analysis tool and currently experimenting with the data mining add in.
Fuzzymatch is useful if you have to try to make 2 mixed up data like company names or non standardized inputs 
I've a custom addin which compares two workbooks based on the primary key column.
NextAnalytics. Pulls in Google Analytics and Adwords, transform and pivot/search & replace on download to save corrections work after download. Batch scripts and dashboard refresh. Also automatically creates a named range now so no need to add dynamic range code when new data added (quite proud of that, think it was my nagging got that feature included) 
Solver. I don't use it often but has a few tricks.
Chart labeler
Do I know you? LOL
I use ASAP a tremendous amount. As well as KUTOOLS. 
I've been wondering about this.  Main functions you use it for?
So if I had a list of checks with the names of people spelled a million different ways, could I use fuzzymatch to group them?
explain more?
Solver is amazing, people are really missing out by not using it more
[This one?](http://www.appspro.com/Utilities/ChartLabeler.htm)
Oh very nice.
There are so many useful functions you should really try it. Just download the home/student version and it's free. A few I use a lot are delete leading/trailing spaces, apply formula to cell, find/replace on all sheets, convert unrecognized format to number, fill empty cells with value above, center across select with no merging...
U can match 1 list with another. The algorithm tries to match texts with the highest probability 
Let's say we have two worksheets and each sheet have  customer information with CID as primary key.

When i run my addin it'll asks us to select sheets and then for primary key column and based on that it'll compare both sheets and find all the non-matching cells.

E.g.

Table1:


CID | Web
---|---
1 | reddit
2 | google
3 | facebook

Table2:


CID | Web
---|---
2 | google
1 | redditABC
3 | facebook
4 | xb0y

When i run the addin it'll highlight redditABC 
yes. exactly.
That sounds helpful. Is it free?
Yep. It's downloadable from Microsoft's website. Just google "excel fuzzy match" and I'm sure you can find it
Cool, thanks!
