Just wondering what you excel gurus do for a living?
Business intelligence for an eCommerce company. 

Basically I take in data from a dozen or so sources, analyze it for problems and opportunities, and then present it to the bosses. 

Then, if it doesn't tell a happy story, they butcher my beautiful work until it looks good for *their* bosses. 
Business Analyst. I create dashboards, reports and master sheets with automation in order to help the managers in their daily work and the executives in their decision making. 
Business intelligence for call centers, even though I basically do "bitch work" in excel and reporting all day
Operations Analyst

Creating process efficiency and developing new crazy ones.
Make spreadsheets for a travel company to automate work and wait to go home
C# Programmer here. I use excel to coordinate my tasks and to [waste time](https://www.reddit.com/r/excel/comments/2jtd2f/worked_on_a_completely_locked_down_machine_time/)
Controller here. Did alot of Business Intelligence side work in my last job as financial analyst.
Finance manager in FP&A for a multinational credit card company.
Senior Accountant.  Lots of analysis and costing with just a hint of modeling.  
I'm not an expert compared to the experts on /r/excel but at work I am the excel god. I work in the front office of a hotel. I take the incomprehensible and barely usable reports from our property management system and cross-reference the crap out of 10 or so reports since one report only ever has one type of information needed to make useful reports. I also answer phone calls and listen to people bitch and/or ask me for the billionth time how to login to wifi.
eCommerce all day long.  Soooooo much data.  Sooooo many pivot tables.  Sooooo many dreams that now involve Excel in some way.
Business Intelligence and Excel based Automation at a BPO.
Aero Stress Engineer, excel for data manipulation / calculation. 
SAP developer
Civil Engineer.  I do a lot of estimates and the data and records side of construction management.
Just a lil' ol' executive secretary for an explosives manufacturer...
Digital Marketing for an eCommerce company, everything from BI to budgeting, forecasting and automation.
I wouldn't say I'm an Excel guru but I'd like to input anyway. 

Visualisation Analyst (fancy title for MI Analyst).

I create dashboards on Excel and Tableau which helps different teams within the company make business decisions and an insight of their performance.
Develop financial models for internal and external clients of a major accounting firm. I swim in Excel, corporate finance, accounting, spreadsheet design and VBA every day. 
Environmental data analyst/scientist
I'm a geologist! Oil and gas. I also do a lot of support work/data stuff/mapping, so excel helps to automate some otherwise-cumbersome database things and map generating.
Cyclist trying to get on the British Cycling team. Part time work for a charity. Signed up for ACCA's this year.
I automate processes, administrate databases and make dashboards for an energy company.
Process engineer for consumer goods.

Use excel for mass balances,  experimental data analysis, monte carlo analysis...
Strategy consulting for a few years. I went corporate last year though, product strategy for a chocolate company.
Involved in the financial world on the RE side of things.  Just want to say please, if you end up doing ESAs, make sure to come to conclusions.  I know there is a lot of pressure from the lawyers to produce a report without actually saying anything, but anyone doing their due diligence is going to be going back to you anyway. ;-)

Won't belabour it anymore, as I don't know if you will ever end up doing ESAs, but make sure to pass that along... just my pet peeve.
I do Oracle Applications administration which is more about being a DBA with an additional specialization rather than "excel guru".  However, advanced Excel stuff is a subset of my job.  

For me, Excel is the last stop in regard to the flow of data.  A watered-down version of what I do is to use traditional ETL methods to extract data from Oracle and dump it into Excel.  From there, VBA, power pivot, and other tools take the data and run with it.   My job is to hand over meaningful data to analysts and statisticians so that they can do their BI magic.  But also as part of that, I have to know Excel, pivot, VBA, and advanced statistical methods like the back of my hand.  

When other people ask what I do, I like to say "Try to break Excel every day"
Operations research analyst for the US Army. We use excel for freaking everything. Data storage (because no one wants to learn Access), data manipulation, calculation, usually focused on acquisition decisions.
Posting here to see answers haha. I've also been curious about this
Question, is Excel your main tool at work or do you use others? I've seen mentions of Tableau. 
Sales Comp Model Consultant

It was fun building models only for me but, building them for clients presents a new load of challenges.
Financial Analyst.  I play with spreadsheets.  Find out why we are or are not meeting goals.  Create reports and present them. 
Contract Management, 
Mainly for hours management by jobs for Invoicing of CPFF, T&M, FFP contracts. We are too small/cheap for one of them fancy enterprise solutions.
Also we have customers that ask that we keep track of our expenditures by colors of money which gets pretty crazy after a while. 

Business manager in the power industry. I can do mostly anything excel wise excluding complex macros and programming. I help wind farms commercially run in the western US.
Financial Analyst for the federal government.  I work mostly with the ACA and payroll for some muckety-mucks.  I used to do more BI in a previous life.
As of July I will be an Investment Banker in M&A, DCM and ECM.

(I also did a Civil & Environmental Engineering Degree and hardly used Excel at all for that!)
Sysadmin now for a luxury homeware retailer, was BI analyst, BA, LMS Admin and (seriously) marketing manager for a very large airline. 
Clinical data analyst for a hospital system. I build dashboards and reports focused on length of stay and readmission rates. There are a lot of different ways to slice the data, so I'm in excel pretty much 80% of my day. 
Systems analyst
Analyst in a trading company
Inventory Analyst
I'm a grad student right now (Sports Management) but I want to work in basketball analytics for an NBA franchise. Used Excel for my thesis data collection and testing.
I'm a mechanical engineer at a leak testing company. I use excel to automate a lot of our bookkeeping and to simply keep track of everything. We also use it with our lab reports for lab work that we do for some of our customers.
LMS admin and analytics for call centers at the enterprise level.  
Financial Analyst, Sales Incentives.
Title is Power Analyst (power as in energy, not a super analyst).  This is a newer job, most of my Excel knowledge came from my previous job as a Data Analyst.
I'm a developer (working in multiple languages daily.. it's........................*fun*), and don't use Excel "properly" too much anymore...  

However, years of daily Excel use, I tend to "think" in spreadsheets, so I find using calc.exe just damn cumbersome....  Hell, even have a graphing calc on my phone (since spreadsheeting on a phone KB is hell)

That and VBA means I help out random peers when they need it to sing and dance a bit...
Financial Analyst

I mostly do reporting on the performance of our assets (hedge funds, real estate, public equity, private equity, venture capital, various futures, etc. etc. etc.)
I'm more of a lurker here and wouldn't call myself a guru yet, but I'm in search marketing at the moment. 
EPIC Data Analyst. I pull patient info from our medical record and analyze it. 
Quality Engineer. Work in a high mix low volume plant so it's more about reporting deadline efficiencies and making dashboards than "fun" stuff like SPC or DOE  :/
Late to the party, and definitely not a guru, but I figured since no one else fits in this mold I would post.

Real Estate Developer > Includes development budgets, draw schedules, reserve schedules, multi-year operating proformas, tax credit basis calculations, buyer and sales calculation, etc.
I'm a coordinator for a team in HR. 

Salary around 60k 
Systems analyst 
Billing and inventory management. 
Data analyst. I usually use Excel for quick-and-dirty tasks and R or Tableau for bigger projects. I occasionally get a financial modeling-type project which is all Excel.
I'm a medical coder, and I use Excel daily for organization, calculations, etc. It's made my life tremendously easier.
Analyst for a financial consulting firm. I'm in Excel so much that I've set it to open when I login to my computer.
Investment Banking at a bulge bracket, focusing on TMT
Pricing Analyst - I do stuff with numbers.
You have elegantly described all the existing internal business information process  in the world.

It gets way worse when they  are not even able to manage themselves the butchering and the ask you to do the dirty work on your own creation
How do you create dashboards? Im terrible outside of the basic excel functions (pivot table, index match etc...)
I'm trying to become a business analyst. What's the best way to get in? I'm currently a database coordinator but mainly use excel for everything.
Looks like there are a lot of Business Analysts in here. 
Me too, call center BI 
How do you get into this line of work?
Call center, eCommerce job checking in. Reporting, dashboards, automation, etc. 
How did you get into this if I may ask? I'm a current undergrad and it's something I'm interested in. 
Salary range?
no shit..... I do the exact same thing.
Nice!
Hey, if it's like many of the hotels I've been to, you need to set the thermostat to 75.64F, turn the lights on and off twice, and connect to the WiFi with a 16 digit password which is actually the name of the hotel with some letters changed to symbols.
E-commerce is awesome, isn't it?!
BPO?
For design of experiments?
SAP User - working on using vba to automate processes. 
A lot of what my team does can be broken down into algorithms - if this then that. Using vba to directly interrogate SAP, process the data and make the changes will release them from some of the 'Donkey Work' and let them concentrate more on the issues they need to think about..
I am soon to be the Senior Estimator for a rather large Commercial Tile and am currently building a workbook to make my estimations easier.  I use Bluebeam for my takeoffs and export the data to Excel where I have formulas to do my estimates.  It's basic but gets the job done. 
[Acme?](http://cdn.psfk.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/01/Wile-E-Coyote-cover.jpg)
How did you get into the environmental side specifically, and what would you recommend to someone who is interested in it? 

Starting grad school in a couple of months, and I'd like to try to do "data science for good" instead of just maximizing profits if possible. 
Literally word for word my job
Hi. I am trying to implement a process at my job that bridges excel and the oracle database we use together.

So instead of logging into the oracle system and running a PnL statement, I'd like to figure out a way to set the parameters for the report in excel and then use some VBA to run the report directly to excel.  Are there any resource you could recommend me? It's a bit over my head at the moment.
All three?
Thougjt you meant you were an epic data analyst and was about to say we are all excel masters in our teams.
Yeah, that stings, my silent protest every time that happens is to save as a new version and note the revision number in the file name.
You can start with pivot tables and pivot charts connected with slicers! [Here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v-0Z4qGS0xk) is a video that shows how it works. 
In a spreadsheet discussion forum? Couldn't imagine why :v
You forgot the "tch"
I worked for the Workforce Department (Scheduling), and I that is where I gained a bulk of my excel knowledge.  once I started automating reporting with emails and fancy graphs, the Business Intelligence department wanted me to do the same thing for their reporting, I then got moved over.  When I was in the WFM Department, I had a lot of downtime to make reports and make the current ones even better. 
It will vary greatly depending on industry, location, and what other responsibilities (if any) your specific job requires.  On the high end, $80-$100k is not unheard of.
$35000. The guy commenting below me has given me a rather generous 100k. I'd obviously prefer that but the economy....
Big Penised Organisation
not really physical ones, we do a lot of analytical assesment.  - sometimes i use it to facilitate making FE models. 
Same here.  I use Bluebeam, as well, mainly to give my documents a more professional look, but also since I deal with a lot of PDFs for keeping electronic records.  It was a PITA using Adobe Reader before our company got the licenses for Bluebeam.
In undergrad I worked in a soil lab, ended up getting a master's in environmental science heavy in soil and GIS. That eventually led to a job in the environmental sector. The company I'm with now really didn't have anyone that was data savvy, so I filled the data analyst position and now manage our database, lab analyticals, regulatory reporting, etc.


To be honest, it has been challenging finding work, but I think most professions are that way these days. Unfortunately the pay is just okay too, not bad, but not that good either. Again, I'm not sure if other professions are any better.

Many (most?) environmental jobs revolve around pollution. So cleaning up polluted sites, assessing polluted sites, evaluating how much the pollution is going to cost the company, making sure the pollution stays contained, shipping the pollution off, showing the government the pollution is being handled properly, etc. 
If you're using Oracle Applications EBS, there is no magic wand for that.  But the bridge that you are looking for might be ODBC drivers (oracle instant client).  That will allow windows to connect to Oracle.  And once you've got that, you can get your Oracle data in real time via linked tabled in Access, via ODBC connection in Excel, via Crystal Reports, via SQL Developer, etc.  

A common flow that we do is to have a database of linked tables in Access, write our queries in Access, then dump that data to Excel and pivot as needed. 

With the power query add on for Excel, combined with VBA, you can easily extract and visualize your data right within Excel directly from Oracle, with ODBC as your bridge to get you there.   I don't really have any resources other than telling you to learn about ODBC, learn about Excel odbc and pivot options, etc.  Once you know what you want to do, conquer each road block as you get there.   The worst thing I see people doing is to take the terrible "canned" Oracle reports and try to put those into Excel through a clunky import wizard and fixed-width spacing.   We only use the canned reports for verifying counts/totals, and we write our own SQL detail to get us granular data we seek.   A plain text report has no place in today's BI world of interactive dashboards and real-time drilldown reports. 

There are some pre-built (and costly) licensed products that specialize in that sort of thing.  Excel4apps "GL Wand", for example.   I like their product demo but it was out of reach for us price-wise. 
Yeah, I will be in an industry coverage group so cover all three for a specific industry. I interned in the same group.
Same here. 

 I also usually comply, never forget and always painstakingly archive what one day may be used against me.
When I first started my professional career, before I learned the version number trick, I'd use words like "revised" in the file name, which would bite me when I needed to make multiple revisions. Distinctly remember a file name that ended up being something like "[project] re-revised final complete."

Ah, youth.
Thank you. I'll look through this and go from here. I was trying to create dashboards for one of our funds (work in asset management). So this might be a good start.
Wow, I've been away too long - I've never seen a comment like that in this sub.
What industry(s) are you servicing? 
What FEA software? I did some DOE and optimization with abaqus and python. Learned how useful dictionaries are that semester. 
[deleted]
Thanks for the advice man. I have read about setting up an ODBC connection so I will start with that. I have never used Access before so I will look into implementing that. Thanks again I really appreciate it!
Cool. Best of luck.
Without knowing what trade you are in I would say double checking your work.  And then triple checking.  Nothing worse than giving a customer an estimate and then after entering a contract you realize you may loose money.  
