Free, Online Excel Aptitude Test?
A lot of people sort of create their own test or will download examples and delete the instructions and have candidates work on them when they come in for an interview. You can probably search for something like "index match excel examples" and whatever else you use often.

If you want to gauge proficiency instead of just establishing a minimum (potentially to differentiate candidates), you may want to set something up and ask them to solve the problem in progressively harder ways. Like set up the index match example from before and they'll probably do vlookup, then have the same problem and ask them to solve a different way (index match), and then a 3rd way (maybe sumproduct), etc.

You can also combine the above with a general "make this presentable, easy to use, and easy to understand."

As a kicker, you can just give them a keyboard (no mouse) and disable the internet.
What does "some skill" mean to you? I find that online tests are either too easy or too pedantic and academic and wouldn't reflect someone who is good at Excel in a business setting but never learnt Excel formally.

I gave up with Excel tests and just ask people to describe a project that heavily used Excel that they were proud of, or a problem they are particularly happy to have solved with Excel and how. That combined with "favourite function" was enough to give a good idea of how comfortable people were with Excel. 
>  disable the internet

.......you're a monster
Ok that is good advice thank you. I ask people how their excel is but I should be more detailed and ask for specifics. 
Considering the amount of documentation in excel itself, the internet is a crutch.

Yeah... people lie so so so much when you just ask them how their Excel is. I interviewed a guy who literally called himself an Excel ninja while never having heard of VLOOKUP. 

If the job itself is relatively well defined then it might be better to just give them a sample task that they would be doing on a day to day basis. You could ask them to complete it on Excel itself, but just describing the task and asking for their approach works too. Usually uncovers the people who are exaggerating their skills. 
Using Google to solve a problem is a very underappreciated valuable skill.
On that note, if the person pulls off the F1 key cap before starting, just hire him/her then and there.
Haha wow. I've exaggerated on my resume before but that is a little much. 
Index-Match is the new Vlookup! Also another user had recently pointed out the dangers of using vlookup as well because it stores the whole array of information in the formula when searching--so you can inadvertently grant access to restricted information.
