MOS Excel Expert 2013 -- The easiest exam that I have failed
I've never taken an MS Excel test, but I have *yet* to finish/pass an Excel CBT...  I'm generally too effective, and the CBT marks it wrong...

One that STILL sticks in my craw....

> Bold this cell.

      [Ctrl-B]

>  Incorrect!   You need to click on the "Home" Ribbon, then click the "B"


Can you post your test after you've anonymized it?  I'd be really curious to see it.
Yep. I've been MOS Master certified since around 1998, and the Excel 2013 Expert exam has been the only blemish on my record. Never failed an exam before it. I even teach Office classes (why I need to be Master certified) and couldn't for the life of me figure out how I failed. I'm convinced it's just poorly written testing software, and that it's not scoring things properly. 

And I'm not the one in my company. As far as I know, only one person passed the Expert exam, and it was just barely, out of about 6 instructors. 
I had the same experience. I left the testing facility puzzled.
Are there any practice test available? Or do I have to spend the $150 for the pleasure of seeing how I'd fail?
Changed flair to discussion :) 

Know we have a few MOS experts here, haven't done it myself though!
I have taken excel expert part 1 and passed with a score of exactly 700 (bare minimum)

I have done part 2 twice and failed both times. first with a score of 420 (lol) and the second with 636, I am doing it a third time one the 1st of april. I can't really delve into more detail, I have seen people pass but it is very picky on the methods you use. 

Note that there are two versions of the test so don't memorize the first as it is a whole new layout.
https://www.reddit.com/r/excel/comments/4c17fn/how_long_does_it_take_you_to_build_an_excel/
Holy crap. If only exam makers knew how hard actual high-level Excel users cringe at this kind of thing. They should be embarrassed. 
freaking shortcuts are not considered?! did the guy in charge of creating the test even know how excel works?
Paste values only... / e s v enter?

WRONG! Use the slowest way through the mouse and GUI!
Yeah, I failed a mandatory exam for a government job because of nonsense like this. I distinctly remember:  
Number these 1 to 10. Failed for dragging numbers down.   
Colour all the "yes" cells. Failed for conditional formatting.  
Enter the correct value for these cells. Failed for vlookup.  
  
Was the most frustrating thing ever. 
What's a CBT? Is that anything like the MOS exam?
That's crazy making.
You mean the transcript or what?
Yeah, I actually read a lot about this happening for past 2010 and 2007 certificate holders.  You'd think Pearson/Certipoint would have fixed it by now, but I guess they make more money selling vouchers...

On one hand, this sorta confirms that my Excel skills aren't as lacking as the transcript said, but then again, it also means I'd have to work twice as hard for no real reason :\
Oh that's terrible! I take the exams about every-other version, since 2000.  Thank you for the heads-up re 2013. 
Do you remember which categories you got unexpected deductions?
after i failed, the proctor invited me to come back when they are open to take practice tests on their computers. ask ur local testing center if they offer that service. beats paying 40 to 75 for practice tests from gmetrix
also, my testing center sold vouchers for 50 each because they buy it in bulk. ask ur testing centers about that too before u buy from certipoint
Well, in their defense, we're not their target audience... I took it because it seemed like "easy" training hours.... yeaaaah.. not so much.
Computer Based Training.   Big in the corporate world in lieu of expensive training sessions.
Yeah, I'd really like to see where/how you lost points.  I've always wondered if that cert would be worth it from a training/resume perspective.
If it's any consolation, I took the 2016 Beta exam and passed it without much problem. The exam is still work based, but is broken up into smaller pieces instead of one big project file. Made it much less nerve wracking. I still missed a few things, which they never tell you what specifically they are, but I was able to leave lots of feedback on things like confusing or vague questions and exercises. 
No, I took the exam well over a year ago.
managing workbooks: 50
formatting cells: 100
advanced formulas: 50
charts: 25

imo chats was the only hard part, yet i lost tons of points in other parts for reasons im not sure why. they dont tell u which problems u get wrong.
