I got my spreadsheet to show the headers as I scroll down the page.
I have co-workers who have been using Excel for 20+ years and copy/paste the header row every 30th-50th row so they still see it in the window when they scroll.
Freeze panes?
The sooner you learn this, the better. One of the many things that tables do to make Excel easier to use is retaining the header at the top of the sheet.

Use tables! (Insert...Table)
I still remember how my mind was blown by the ability to add comments to cells haha
Learn the value of a vlookup formula and a pivot table if you have not already. Once you learn vlookup read up on why index match is better in most cases(vlookup is easier to learn than index match and I feel a building block to understanding a lot in excel). You will be the go to excel guy in your office in no time and want to learn more
Once upon a time, my middle school had some sort of fund raising deal with a local super market, where if we collected their receipts, they would give us a percentage of the total sale amount, ignoring tobacco and milk sales and state sales tax.

We were tasked with manually adding up all these totals, which was pretty time consuming.  My class mates thought I was a genius when I wrote a BASIC program on one of the library's card catalog computers to add up all the totals, subtract out the items that didn't count, and print reports.  (This was pre-internet, after all)

One of the math teachers saw what I was doing, and introduced me to Lotus 1-2-3 and my mind was blown at how numbers could be so easily manipulated, comparatively, with a spreadsheet.     
We all start somewhere. :-)

Trust me, I'm not far ahead of you. :-P
'Tables' make it even easier by replacing the column letter with your column name
Hey OP, congrats on learning something new!

In case you wanted another way to tackle this issue, [I decided to make a tutorial for you](http://imgur.com/a/kqx3h)

This is 100% a dumb, and also late, April 1 joke, but I was a little drunk so I figured if someone gets a laugh out of it I'm happy. If you actually want more info about any of the things I did, I can do that too~
Nice!

It's the little things early on that make you love something!
This makes me sad for them. 
I tried that but it didn't work very well.  So I looked for something better 
Yes.  Simple.  But still exciting.  
Ctrl +A, Ctrl + T has made me a wizard to many
Surprise surprise,  something new to learn about.  Can you suggest a link to begin my look down this rabbit hole? 
I'm learning so much about excel right now.
A new thing to learn,  but I can't see why I would want to do this.  
I just learned about index match recently and I wonder why I hadn't learned it earlier. It makes my life soooo much easier
> You will be the go to excel guy in your office in no time and want to learn more

Sadly I work for myself, And my wife stares blankly at me when I mention Excel. But I think in time I can convert her to my religion.

Hence this Post. I don't know anyone else except this sub where people would be saying, I remember how cool it was to learn that, Have you tried...

Do you have a good source for an introduction to vlookup?

Are you like those drug dealers in the school yard? "Hey kid, I know you enjoyed sort, meet me here after school and I will let you try some Pivot table, And it won't cost you nothing"
> ignoring tobacco and milk sales and state sales tax.

lol why milk?
Sweet.  Wish I came to this then rather than at 53. But then,  at that age I would not have seen the use and thought you an idiot for trying to teach me.  
Oh good,  I thought I was the only one on this sub who only recognizes a third of the words in most postings ;) 
Can you suggest a link as to where to find this.  
Thanks.  I am on my phone right now but will give it a go tomorrow.  No one have ever made me laugh with Excel before so hopefully you will succeed.  
Yup, That would work. And yes, you succeeded where no one has before, you made me laugh with Excel. Thanks
Oh yeah.  When I was doing a payroll class last year and got my formulas all to work.  Put a number in a box.  Mash enter.  All these other boxes fill with the correct numbers.  It was like discovering masterbation on Christmas morning,  but with less wrapping paper.  
They do so because they don't know how to freeze/unfreeze panes, and they don't know how to repeat a specific range at the top of every page when printing (assuming there is a reason to print a 20 page worksheet of names and addresses).
The happiness never ends. I've made a  career out of knowing more than most at excel and vba. 
Contextures is usually pretty good: http://www.contextures.com/xlExcelTable01.html
I use mostly use it on a workbook that I share with my boss and coworkers. Nice to easily share notes with each other or figure out who is ruining my formulas. 
Really handy for collaboration. Or rather, when people just type their thoughts into your pristine data set you will want to slap them.

Congrats by the way! I'm no guru but the first time I used vlookup to solve an actual real-life business problem it was soooo satisfying, and my client thought I was excel Jesus.
Chandoo always had good material, and examples:

http://chandoo.org/wp/2012/03/30/comprehensive-guide-excel-vlookup/
Haha once people know you understand excel you become the most uncool version of popular ever. 

Google is always your friend, I tell everyone you will never ask Google something it hasn't been asked before, that is especially the case with excel.

I love Mr. Excel mrexcel.com go to forum. I post there frequently and try to answer when I can. Just Google vlookup examples and I assure you, there will be enough there to keep you busy and I'd be willing to bet once you look at the examples ideas will pop in your head of where you could have and where you could use the formula
Right?  Only thing I can think of, state has price controls on milk. 
I saw this post and was like, "Finally, something I can help solve! Damnit, he solved it himself.."

haha
Here's the [simple version](https://support.office.com/en-us/article/Quick-start-Create-an-Excel-table-33d08e18-fa0f-40fe-8af3-5683b034ec42) and [here's one](http://www.contextures.com/xlExcelTable01.html) with more detail on the benefits and possibilities.
It's sooo satisfying entering a few variables, and everything else populates. I LOVE that!
Yeah, nice, printing a 20 page workbook and making it longer by adding needless headings.

I work as a carpenter and this makes me think of someone carrying a wheelbarrow because they cany figure out how to make it roll.

:)


Like making a career out of playing with Tonka trucks.  But with less motor noises 
What do you do? Are you satisfied with it? 
Hiring? 
THanks. What is funny is that I was already working with a table. I was using a blank spreadsheet my accountant gave me and I couldn't figure out how to make those ugly downward facing arrows at the top of every column go away. AND I have been sorting by date by highlighting the entire table and then using the sort function.

You have just saved me another hunk of time.
Already,  even with this post I have gotten some ideas of how to make it work better with just the two spread sheets I am working with.  
I am happy when there is a post where I understand some of the words.  Don't think I will be helping anyone any time soon. 
Thanks,  looks interesting.  I will watch the video tonight.  
I love especially when I have it up on the dual monitors and so I can see the other page fill when I mash the button. The page my mouse isn't even on. So cool.
