Thanks to Excel i landed a good position and had a great career opportunity! [UPDATE]
Congratulations!
Awesome!

I did want to comment on this though.

>Some of my colleagues want to jump right in to nested functions when they don't know that things such as countifs and sumifs exist.

I'm taking a formal course on Excel right now, and they definitely got us into nested functions before introducing countif and sumif. I can see why, since the whole nesting concept is what makes Excel start doing magic tricks. For the record it was nested IF functions that we started with. My only point is that there are several viable approaches, and Excel isn't what you could call linear. It's more like learning a guitar or something.

My real point is that it sounds like you had a job with room to grow, which is so important. My new skills are just useless in my current job, and of course we use a bit of Excel, but the operation is just too small for me to make any similar leaps. So if you're out there looking for new horizons, make sure the current job can provide them.
> I got them certified by finishing that training with me

Which training? Bdw Congrats!
That is awesome, congrats! I would love to be a part of a similar committee at my work (Fortune 500, global company, 60K employees). I have actually proposed such a committee as a part of an innovation push. We'll see how it goes.
Very happy to read that somebody has taken the time to improve himself and that the hardwork has paid, congratulations
Nice going!

>Now, I am able to do log in tools, process trackers and leave trackers for my team.

Can you provide some examples, or a sample workbook? In addition to my regular duties at work I am the unofficial 'Make everything more efficient' guy, anything new would be cool to look at.
Great summary of points! 
What is your position now and salary? I need to know where I m in the job market. More importantly, what do you know in VBA? If you o not feel comfortable posting here, can you please please pm me?
Congrats! If you're taking more excel people at your company, sign me up :P
Hello and congratulations!!

I'm somewhere between basic and advanced user, and I'm thinking about (re)focusing my career because I really love Excel. 

But I have some  Excel related questions:

What's a time tracker? And a log in tool? Could you provide some examples? Many thanks!
This is a pleasure to read! Thank you and congratulations.

I work on improving my Excel skills by helping here, or trying to improve the way I complete tasks. There are some reports that used to take me hours to assemble. Instead, I take part of that time to build a tool to make it easier for me to produce the report the next time. All said, I progressively spend less time on creating the report and a chunk of the saved time on learning instead.

If it took me 3 hours to complete before, it is now 15 minutes with 2 hours spent learning something new and 45 minutes to spare. 
If you haven't tried it yet, check out this [VBA Class from Cal Poly Pomona](https://openeducation.blackboard.com/mooc-catalog/courseDetails/view?course_id=_219_1)
My love for excel lead me to learn VBA which opened me up to working with databases and landed me a great job working on a development team.  Being a super user of excel is only going to get more important in the next couple of decades.
Now that you are creating tools get ready to support them! Automation tools are worse than children... the better the tool and the more adoption it gets the more it will haunt your career. At least a well raised child will get a job and support themselves. LOL
What sort of jobs are these that use excel like this? curious because i am still choosing a career path atm
Congratulations!!! You're doing exactly what I hope to at my company. I want to use my Excel/VBA skills to automate and improve processes at our company.
Thank you for sharing and you are also correct with your point.

>My real point is that it sounds like you had a job with room to grow, which is so important. My new skills are just useless in my current job, and of course we use a bit of Excel, but the operation is just too small for me to make any similar leaps. So if you're out there looking for new horizons, make sure the current job can provide them.

Yes, that is correct. I resigned to my previous employer to hunt for jobs where I can use Excel and I found one. My role is to do reports so when that is done I have lots of free time to put in Excel practice. And obviously, my job revolves in Excel.
Oops! Sorry if the sentence is a bit confusing. What I mean is the Basic Excel training I conducted.
Good luck! I hope it works out for you
Thanks a lot! I can't believe that learning excel would make my career develop like this. I am very lucky to read a post in reddit to start learning excel.
I can't send anything right now since I'm at work.

Management here tracks a couple of things:

1. Attendance

2. Leaves

3. Lates

4. Time you spend working on a specific item

I just create tools for that specific problems. 

1.Leave tracker - We have 16 employees in our team. This tool tracks the projected leaves of each member. In the workbook, they can add leaves to the dates they like. They can tag it as vacation, sick, parental etc.

My boss can search in the tracker (by date or by name) then he can approve the leaves of my officemates. The higher management can also view this so they have an idea where they need to ramp up work because an employee will be on leave in the following days

2.Log in tool - We have a web based login tool but most of the time it's down. So I just created a back up if it's down again


3.Process tracker - A tool that lets my teammates tag whatever the hell they are doing (on break, management, training, processing, etc.). Then my boss has a separate worksheet where he can pull the data and see what my teammates are currently doing (tagged). My boss can also extract data so he can compare and analyze the data of the whole team


4.Reports automation - My actual work revolves around extracting raw data, put them in excel, arrange them then send it to management. Since I handle weekly and monthly reports that are done everyday I decided to automate them. I just click one button, relax and wait for the report to run itself and be finished.
PM'd
Time tracker - I have colleagues that their nature of work revolves around processing. So I made a time tracker to measure how much time they spend in each work type they work on. It has a start, stop, pause and resume button. It will return a time format.

Log in tool - This is for attendance purposes. My boss tracks our lates so I made a back up if our web based log in tool is down. 
I have it in my bookmark. I'll study i once I got the time. Thanks for reminding me!
Can I know your story? I would love to hear it.
Can you expound more?
Usually job roles that do reports. Most of the data are in excel format. Once you are done with all of the reports for the day, you got free time to practice. 
Not just that, but you have the will to learn, apply and create... reddit it is open to many people and thousands read the posts everyday, but not everybody do something, congrats again.
Ah right yeah it was the login thing i hadn't seen before. Cheers.
Awesome! Do...do you have an example of the process tracker with "dumb" data. It'd be cool to see how you did it so I can try it out.
Would you possibly mind sharing that with me as well? 
Same
Out of interest, I'd like to know as well :)
Same with the VBA question. :-) Automation team sounds fun. What did you practice to get into that?
I'd also really like to know.
Would like to as well
Me also please
Me too :)
Well if you're still giving that info out OP, I'm kinda curious as well. Either way, neat post, thanks for the interesting read.
I got really good at excel over the years using it as a scheduling tool for a business I started as well as some other random projects.  I was introduced to VBA in college in a blow-off course I took to fill up my schedule.  Out of college I worked in marketing where we had access to big data bases and expensive tools which pulled me away from excel.  After 2 years of using SQL on the job and a whole hell of a lot of self learning later I landed a development gig through a college friend.  Lots of pieces fell into place, but I spent a lot of time self learning so I was competent enough to land a development position.
Basically he is saying automation tools are great but over time they require maintenance and updates.

You will be the person who will likely do this as the author.
Me as well
I just watch excelvbaisfun user's basic video series. I practice and google a lot. I also record macros to study the codes. Before I could even finish the basic series I am already using userforms and other intermediate stuff.
It's a good way to ensure job security as long as you're comfortable being the support guy though.
Yes, I already experiencing this especially on its pilot testing stage. Thanks for the heads up.
I'm okay with that. I knew a guy in my previous employer who did the same thing. He switched to different teams but his previous team needs his help to update their automation tools/tracker. Since it is outside his job role, his previous team is paying him for his service. Lucky dude.
