[Discussion] How to approach an interview that will contain a lot of talk about Excel?
Hey man, it's their definition. They are looking for an expert, compared to themselves. 

It's okay to sell yourself. Tell them that whenever a coworker mentions VLookup, that you teach them INDEX/MATCH. Go over how you import data, go over your fun, out-of-work project. 

Make sure you look smart and look into the bridge of the interviewer's nose. It's a salesman's trick to maintain eye contact. Interviewers appreciate eye contact and a friendly smile. 

TL;DR, accept that you're an expert in their eyes; focus your attention on appearing to be a pleasant, reliable person to work with. 
Import could be anything...maybe an ODBC connection, maybe manually pulling in text from a CSV.  

If they're not familiar with it, I say bring up INDEX/MATCH.  It has the same functionality of the lookups, and is a bit more flexible and faster on larger workbooks.  Be clear that you are still familiar with H/VLOOKUP though, as you will likely be asked to maintain some of their legacy workbooks that use those things.

Honestly, just be confident and don't be afraid to oversell yourself.  I've seen the "office excel expert" adding up a column of values with a calculator. 
Talk about what you do in your job.  The best way to show them you have excel skills, is to include excel details when walking through your resume.

Tell them you spend 90% of your time in excel, and that's it always open on your computer.  Say things like, "The first thing I do when I start up my computer is start excel, even before Outlook.  Talk about the models you make, the databases you query, and how they've been integrated in your division.  

Obviously, only if it's true, but don't say you have excellent excel skills, demonstrate how you use excel in every day duties and the interviewer will know you know excel without even asking questions. 

They will probably still ask if it's that integral to the role, but doing this will he difference between questions like "so you do you vba," vs "explain how you would create a macro that would automatically email us when this happens..."

Take the initiative by putting your excel skills to the forefront of the interview, and provided you do know excel, you'll ace the interview.  

But be prepared to take a test.  I always give excel tests, because people lie.
If you're worried about the "Expert" connotation, simply tell them that you feel your experience and knowledge in Excel will easily match what you have been told is needed for the position.

If I were you and the interviewer asked if I was an "Excel expert," I would probably say, "Well, I don't know that I would consider myself an 'expert,' but that's because there's a lot of things in Excel that I haven't had the need to learn. However, I am very capable in advanced applications of Excel. VLOOKUP, MATCH/INDEX, and Pivot Tables are an everyday task for me. For example, [enter what you use them for]."

As for your downloading of data, that's something I would definitely bring it up, especially if the job requires some skills in Excel. Showing a desire to expand your knowledge outside of your office hours showed a great dedication.
Check this out: http://www.indeed.com/rc/clk?jk=b01d83ccfde5b810

Will either make you feel better or much worse lol
Does legacy just mean old?
> But be prepared to take a test. I always give excel tests, because people lie.

Some of the most incompetent excel users are gifted liars.
Yep.  I could see a situation where he might have to go crawling into older workbooks to pull historical data.
Legacy literally just means old? I've come across the term quite a bit at my job, and I couldn't quite figure out what it meant. Its always when referring to old stuff though, so it makes sense. I just want to make sure that legacy literally means "old"? Or is there a more accurate definition?
I think technically it means any existing system that is not actively being implemented, however in common usage it's used pejoratively to mean something old that could probably use an upgrade.   
I just Googled it, looks like you got it!

"denoting software or hardware that has been superseded but is difficult to replace because of its wide use."

I don't know why I didn't Google it before haha. When I first heard the term, I thought it was the name of a hardware manufacturer.
