How do I freelance with my Excel Skill?
I tried doing this for a while in college, and I would say it isn't worth your time, the people that need your help are inept with computers and don't really know what they need at this point you are selling them on features that may help them. I have taught many excel classes to colleagues and friends, and while it is an underrated skill, I have found it to be more useful in industries that have not been impacted by the tech wave as much. Some guy up there said bring it to your school... Your school has no idea what they can use it for and most of the time use it incorrectly, but is there a need there? Imho no. 
Never tried this but I am interested as well. I am the office "excel guy". In addition im the "excel guy" for my friends offices as they tell people they are good at it and just forward issues to me. 
id be willing to guess that if you just walked in and asked businesses, you might get a few hits, but they'd probably just take your ideas and get someone to half ass it for $14/hr
My experience roughly matches other's here. In summary, Excel by itself isn't that great of skill - it's a tool to accomplish a project, not the end in and of itself. If you'll need to combine it with some other skill *and industry specific aptitude* in order to get noticed.  Telling a school district you can analyze their data? Not special. Tell a school district you can take their attendance and graduation data, create algorithms to measure teacher and student success, and identify the critical path that leads to higher graduation rates? Useful.

I used education as the example as it was mentioned earlier in the thread. I do mostly the same thing in another field, and 95% of getting the gig is knowing what someone needs measured, why it needs to be measured, and what they should do as a result of it. If it's not actionable, it's not worth the investment.
Walk into any school district office and offer 10 free hours of data analysis and trend identification. Hook em on the free stuff. 
What do you mean by "dashboards"?
I have had some luck in this niche, but only as a filler between the bigger gigs.  
I don't think there is much business saying "I know Excel. How can I help you?".  What I did was turning the table. "Oh, I see you have a problem extracting text from PDF files. I can help you with that". This requires you to learn more about their itches, which is the tricky part, but once you have scratched one, there are many more to come. 
Only teaching in my opinion. 


I doubt many people would expose their data to a stranger. There would be a few done as "I know a guy" kind of references, but not enough to earn money from. 


Most importantly, anyone you do paid work for will be calling you to "Fix it" over and over again. When have you ever finished a workbook and been able to call it done without going back in? You always go in and add to it or repair something some ass messed up. When they call you to fix something, even if they broke it, they will be seeing it as "warranty" type work. Possibly an hourly repair fee, but most likely an expectation to repair for free. Your earnings / hour will be slave labor.
I've been doing this for nearly six years and here are my observations

1. Companies don't really have a problem handing data over if (a) they can make it anonymous or you sign a NDA or CA. One of my first jobs was creating a tool to manage $500m of hedge funds for a global drinks company.

2. Although most companies have an "Excel Guy" in the office these guys are not above being laid off. When they get laid off and the companies spreadsheets go wrong they will call someone like you. This next bit is said with no disrespect to other posters here - In my experience, in most cases, the office excel guru is only the excel guru because he knows more than anyone else in the office. However, when compared to external freelancers, their skill levels aren't so high. There are of courses where the office excel guru is a true guru but not very often.

3. The demand for Excel Experts (I'm excel-expert.com) has dropped rapidly over the past 2-3 years. More and more companies are switching to tablets and smartphone apps to gather and process data. spreadsheets will never go away, but the demand is dropping.

4. Finding customers is a constant mind numbing nightmare. Expect to spend over 50% of your time on marketing. You have two options here. Firstly you could go after all the little jobs that take 1-2 hours. This makes marketing easier as most companies could do with the odd bit of help here and there, but there is more competition at this level. Secondly you could go for the bigger jobs that take 40-120 hours. This is more profitable than chasing small jobs and there is very little competition at this level (in the UK I would say there was only 6 people at this level). The trouble is it is really hard to market.

It would be a real uphill struggle to start as a freelance excel programmer today, however there are alternatives. Produce things you can sell over and over again. Templates, training videos and off the shelf tools. Templates generally sell for anything between £1 and £10. Training videos can be sold via sites such as Udemy (you will need to check what they sell for and what commission they take). Finally ready made tools like stock control, timesheets etc can sell for between £10 and £30 a go.

Once you have created this content all you have to do is promote it


Flair changed to discussion, let's keep the sub tidy.

Most of the time, you will be undercut by India and China. They can offer the same work you can do for less than half the money and work longer hours to get it done.

Unless you can offer fast, high quality work, on site (or offsite, full time) at a competitive price - you're going to have a difficult time.

Source: Tried it.
The market is way over saturated.  You need to invest a lot of time and money building a client base, which is very difficult - Most companies already have an "in-house excel expert" or use other systems, so you're looking at very small companies/start-ups who have limited budget to spend on someone who will make a 'spreadsheet' for them.

I suggest looking at trying to do some work in your spare time to 'test the water'.  As /u/epicmindwarp has said, you're going to have a hard time competing with India.
Not directly work excel, but there are several related careers that you can find work in, such as a financial analyst, business analyst, or entry level data scientist. Find your work through a consulting agency ideally, as they will do the selling for you and may be able to get you part time work. 

Source: wife just quit job as financial analyst and they basically brought in an excel guru to replace her. 
You mentioned Freelancer ... have you had a lot of gigs there?  I've been meaning to check that out from the customer side. 
Walk to your local adult education community center type thing and offer to teach classes in basic excel.
I think someone may have posted this before:

http://www.peopleperhour.com/

[deleted]
At least in the US, there are Temp agencies that hire Excel gurus purely for Excel related stuff. I know Robert Half AccountTemps is always looking for guys. Going this route, you can have your side job as Temp and pursue other things. This was how I got started.
Judging by the responses below it doesn't seem easy.  If I may add a follow up questions - what tools in the data space are easier to freelance?
When you say it isn't worth my time, you mean the pay is too low? I found quite many jobs on freelance website such as oDesk, freelancer. Did you try them in college?
I've been thinking about it to. 


What got me was meeting people whose job was 80% "being a macro". Remarkable how many people literally spent most of their time  matching data (vlookup/hlookup) or creating reports (exact same format, easy for VBA). 


I was thinking about trying to sell this as "efficiency consulting through technology".  And I would wager most jobs would come down to a form and a way to parse and analyze the results. The savings would be astounding

Thanks so much. This's the best answer of the thread. I'd close it now.
SOLUTION VERIFIED
What makes you say this?
I believe this would be against the law in the US. Schools can't just share student information with anyone, and what they can share and with whom is highly regulated.
In the UK, without a CRB and the correct credentials, this simply wouldn't work.
It's simply the interface within the spreadsheet
I would agree.  Providing real value with Excel is mostly about understanding the needs of the business and many won't give you the time or be as open as necessary for you to demonstrate value.

Also, you'd have to convince them this isn't just a one-and-done deal, because things will break, needs will change, and almost nobody will know how to fix your shit. Be prepared for follow ups so don't spread yourself so thin you can't be *perceived* as "on call" 24/7.
Are you in "Virtual Assistant" business? 
nice post, thanks for the insight. 

It's a bit off the front page now but we get freelance questions every so often so maybe someone will see it later :) 

I can totally see the demand for excel dropping, business data is generally getting "smarter", and excel itself is getting better at doing things more easily (and prettier) than it used to - I mean back in the days you'd need to mess around with SUMPRODUCT to do a COUNTIFS, not exactly intuitive. 

I haven't done much freelance work myself, I tried for a while on the standard ODesk and peopleperhour and whatnot, but it was a very saturated market and building up a reputation was difficult. From talking to people who have done well with freelancing, it has very much been a word-of-mouth reputational thing. You get a gig one place, they recommend you somewhere else, call you back, etc. And that's hard to get your foot in the door with. 


I'm from Vietnam, so probably they are even undercut by me. 
Can confirm tried freelance for a minute there - competing with India who's workers were willing to do $5 an hour on some intermediate projects, that's not even worth my time here in the States. Having the skills is the easy part, trying to work with people who don't know what the hell they want is where you spend the majority of your project.
I disagree. If all you do is excel he may be right but if you look sharp, are a good communicator and have some business skills, then you are actually way more valuable than somebody on the other side of the world with a language barrier. Just contact some staffing companies and see what kinds of openings they have for financial analysts or business analysts. 
Hello!

It looks like you tried to award a ClippyPoint, but you need to reply to a particular user's comment to do so, rather than making a new top-level comment.

Please reply directly to any helpful users and Clippy, our bot, will take it from there. If your intention was not to award a ClippyPoint and simply mark the post as solved, then you may do that by clicking Set Flair. Thank you!

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/excel) if you have any questions or concerns.*
I think he's saying you'll be fighting an uphill battle to try and convince anyone of the value you add. My advice is if you've found freelance jobs online, give them a try and see how you get on
I was finding jobs. Maybe it was just where I lived but it was just my sentiment that it's not a particularly good individual skill but it helps achieve other goals if coupled with say accounting or data analysis. I think you will just be teaching a bunch of people how to use pivot tables, when if they actually gave a shit, they would Google it and learn in 5 seconds. 
I think you're over generalizing when you say "most jobs". Some jobs, yes- maybe even a lot of jobs. Most jobs though? Not by a long shot.

You have awarded one point to _All_Work_All_Play_.    
[^Find ^out ^more ^here.](https://www.reddit.com/r/excel/wiki/clippy)

You'd just have to sign some stuff probably, and get clearances that show you aren't a pedo.  
However it's not like CRBs are hard to get AND you can bypass it by just doing work for the council instead of the school. It's what I did (although I did have a connection in the council).
It's not going to work in the US either. 
I wouldn't say being able to use the standard UI is a major selling point. 
No, I'm an IT consultant. On a normal day I work with development and customization of enterprise applications. 
No problem - hopefully it will help someone one day.

I wouldnt recommend anyone go down the ODesk or PeoplePerHour route. Even if you end up with the best of reputations you end up with a couple of major problems

1. Your per hour rate will be less than a tenth of what you can get by selling direct to companies. When you start out you will be lucky to get a twentieth of what you could elsewhere. You would become a busy fool just to keep any sort of money coming in

2. The type of customers you get are the worst possible customers. They shop on price alone and will drop you in a heartbeat if they find someone cheaper than you - there is zero loyalty to be found on these sites. They are also the type of clients who want everything for nothing - so expect them to try expand the project specification without expanding the payment.

Your time is better spent find clients that pay realistic rates and will be a lot more loyal, You will have far less clients but you will earn more and you will build a regular client list.

Word of mouth has been huge for me. For example I did a small job for a company making cardboard boxes for Walmart. They got me in to Walmart and General Mills who are now two of my biggest clients. Cultivating word of mouth is difficult but not impossible. I use LinkedIn to promote myself and my profile is full of recommendations from past clients

"Most jobs" as in most of the jobs I would be bidding for, not most office workers daily tasks. 


That was poor wording on my part. I was just trying to say I would wager there is enough work out there to fill mostly with jobs like that and work full time. My problem is trying to get people to sit down and do a initial consultation and here my business case for a potential service
Usually it refers to creating custom interactive UIs to comply with bespoke requests
Thats only because you work somewhere where people know how to do that.
My bad, misread. 
