Anyone else bothered by the blatant advertising in the comments recently?
This really is a tough issue to "solve".  Is it more than 1 user? Do you have a list of people that do this, or is it one person?

Does it go against the [guidelines and best practices of self promotion on reddit](https://www.reddit.com/wiki/selfpromotion)?

For the most part we (as the mod team) have had a hands off approach to handling things like this because we have a great user base that know that the best way to handle things that are "unwelcome" is with the up/down votes.

> often without even attempting an answer to the OPs problem. These are often from users with no history in this sub.

This, is not okay.  The best way to get the mods attention is with the report button, and please be specific as to why we need to look at it, the worst is when we get a report and there is nothing there...

These sorts of things will get removed.

>  so maybe I'm speaking out of turn here

You are not, by all means, we have always tried to include the community in any subreddit change that we make, and are always welcome feedback.

But just a side, the mod team has been made aware of this and we will be talking through options.

FNTW

This can easily be taken care of with AutoModerator.  If anyone is interested in my course series on AutoModerator, feel free to contact me.
It irked me a little bit I thought it was just me. Bad taste in the mouth and all that blah blah
I honestly have no issue with it if they have attempted to solve OPs issue. 

I'm yet to see it in any other form as you've described though.

(also while we're at it has anyone noticed that people are clearly using throwaway accounts to upvote their own posts so more people will see it and help? This is something that irks me.)
Ask me how I doubled my portfolio returns in only 2 weeks!
I've seen it happen too. However, this tool can help you out for 3 easy payments of 2.99 and one hard payment of 5.99. Www.thetoolyouneed.cheap
Often times someone will ask "what is a good source for xxx..." (I have)

I usually reply with the free course that I know of for Excel/Access VBA but when someone asks for resources, all bets are off. The fact is that people who make tutorials devote their time, and as such, compensating them is not a sin. If I want to point someone to what I think is a good source, it will get upvoted regardless of price, if others agree it's worth it. 
Thanks for the reply /u/fearnotthewrath.

It's certainly more than one user, but of course I'm not going to call people out here. The ones that I've found who's answer to the OP's problem was "buy my thing" were reported and I'm sure dealt with appropriately. 

No doubt it's a tough situation as some of these users *do* post helpful replies in addition to a "learn more with my course" link at the end of their comment, which I suppose they can't be faulted for based on there being no policy forbidding it.

This is just something that I've noticed becoming common recently and wanted to start the conversation.

I appreciate you and your team taking the time to discuss.
We have Clippy for that, we sick Clippy on user names, keywords, nearly anything we want.

We can even have Clippy remove a post based on user and content... But the question is should we?

Where do we draw the line.  I mean if I had a website and offered solutions and said "for more info visit my site".  Should that be removed?  So by saying if X user posts X site remove it, it would eliminate those comments.

Even if we mark them as spam, that still requires human interaction, so why bother with the bots in that case?


&gt; also while we're at it

This is not true to an extent.  Reddit has "safeguards" in place that helps prevent this from happening.  I am not saying that it does NOT happen, but I think the limit is two upvotes per IP address.  I would have to go back and find where I read that, but I do recall seeing it.

As part of that safeguard, this could potentially lead to shadowbans, as it could be considered brigading... So it is a slipper slope, and I don't think that most worry about it when we are talking about a QA sub that gives out very little Karma... (IMHO)
How did you double your portfolio returns in only 2 weeks?

Of course. 

I wasn't referring to posts where people are specifically requesting these things. If that's the case, then anything and everything are appropriate.

As an example of the kind of things I've been seeing:

A user posted asking for help with hyperlinks. One of the replies they received was "Here's a video where I show you how to do this in VBA". The link that was posted was to an advertisement for his $20 udemy course.

I was making a joke about people self-promoting their training courses.
It wasn't the Karma that bothered me, it was that people's questions were unfairly getting to the top of the "hot" tab and so getting more attention than others.

But if there are things to stop it happening then fair enough.
Nothing. I just had a good two weeks. That'll be $5.
Yeah figured as much but I am guessing others are thinking the same thing and took that opportunity to explain our reasoning 😏
I'm sending you the money as soon as I hear from that Nigerian prince I helped last week.
