A Dumb Excel Joke -- Just for the Weekend!
Or maybe it is the right place for you. Think of all the work you don't have to do if you automate your work. 
[deleted]
My response would have been, "Oh, I'd just use Power Query." but the outcome of the conversation would have been the same. 
We need /r/TalesFromExcelSupport
That nicely sums up my experience with every single Excel CBT I've taken.... 

"Bold this cell"  [Ctrl-B]    YOU FAIL!   You were supposed to Click the **B**!
Are you saying this happened or that it is a joke?
Tell me this really did not happen.
Bingo!! I had a position for a year where all I did was clicked a button on Monday morning to run a macro. The rest of the week I played Xbox and studied 
This made me laugh...
Had the same thing a decade ago when applying for an AS400 system operator position. I had just left the same position, after working there for 2 years.

In the interview, my would-be boss asked me how I would cancel a print job from a specific printer. I told him I didn't know the commands off-hand, but could easily complete the problem if I were in front of a terminal.

I didn't get the job.
Shhh.. 

Create it.  Anyone can create a subreddit.
So true! They ask 20 questions about saving Excel documents and how they work online with sharepoint, and then maybe ask two "problem solving" questions, which in every job I've ever had is where you spend 90%+ of your time.  
Didn't really happen! It's just similar to the kind of stuff that comes up in the real world that makes me laugh!
I used to be a good, honest person like you... but now when I go for a job interview even if they ask me something I usually just say "yeah I know it" and read up on it before I start. I've only been to 5 interviews in my life and got 4 jobs from them. The ONE I didn't is the one I was honest.

100% of the time so far neither the HR nor the my direct supervisor even knew the answer to any tech questions they asked me. One actually had me take a "test" they bought on the computer, and were surprised I finished [formatting a table] 59 minutes less  than the hour deadline for the exam because I knew how to ctrl+c / ctrl+v and autoformat...
The problem with his question was that he wanted a direct answer, not a "yes, I can do it" answer. The issue I had is that anyone who had worked the position for 2 years would know how to do it; just because I can't tell you the command doesn't mean I couldn't do it.
Then my default response is "anything is possible with a little hope and a lot of Google."
Which is what I told my current job when they asked my experience.

"I'm currently taking an advanced Excel course focused on applications in Finance. I have also trained myself in macros and VBA, using it in a few personal spreadsheets. Anything I don't know myself can be found in a few minutes with a good Google search."
That's a good way to do it.

