Excel and SQL skills test for analyst job.
I'm a data analyst and my format might work for you. Whenever I have to provide someone with some analysis, I give them an Excel workbook with five tabs: one tab has the query I used, one tab has the raw SQL output, one tab has the analysis (the raw data with calculations and formulas applied), one tab has the summary, and the last tab is a 'data dictionary' that has the calculations I used and definitions for any weird metrics. In use a template for this that has a sort of "header" with the name of the report, data source, reports contact, etc. It looks clean and professional, and is super great if they come back to me months later with questions and I'm struggling to remember details - the query, definitions and data source are all on one neat package. 

I can tell you what I look for in assistants: SQL-wise, being comfortable with joins and grouping. Excel-wise, being comfortable with lookups, sum/countifs, if/nested if, and if you can summarize the data cleanly. 

Good luck!

Edit: spelling
Long-time BI developer checking in - many people with your educational background enter senior analyst roles in Big4's quite regularly.  There is very little expectation that you will know SQL so do not worry! However, my expectation is that you'll learn SQL within 2/3 months - this may sound intimidating but it isn't difficult.

Below are some items that I look for when hiring:

Have used/interacted with several tools/environments, e.g. Visual Studio (SSIS is a big plus), SQL Server, Hadoop and some experience with either R or Python.  I will not test for these.

Have the ability to think in terms of dimensional data modelling. I will test for this.

Have the ability to link business logic to dimensional data modelling.  This is a big one for senior analysts who may be considered for manager roles. I will test for this.

The ability to recognise dirty data and elegant methods to clean it.  I will test for this because it is likely going to be 90% of your job.


Anyway, if you want some help designing your technical document then please message me.  I can provide some direction.
Bro you have to be something special to make Senior Analyst with no experience and code academy sql
Forgot to mention I'm a PhD student with little business experience but transferable skills
be good at joins and be able to explain dem
I have done forecasting and business analysis for years and the layout that Bardaichila recommends is great.  It is the format I always present data to people which have asked me for analysis.  One, it keeps all my data together, two, it becomes familiar to your coworkers and, I work with people who are technically savvy and this allows them the ability to play with the data, oh, and I forgot in the future it allows someone else or myself to replicate or use as a starting point for new analysis.
Where is this job and how can I apply, lol.

Edit:. My way of saying I doubt your SQL experience level is adequate based on how they describe it, and that I'd also like to step up to a senior position. 
[deleted]
Holy shit you might've just gotten some of us a new job.  Thanks, brother!
That sounds pretty neat actually, I do lots of Excel & SQL Queries and might pinch that idea - Thanks!
Thanks for this, however I think they want to see a physical paper document. As a data analyst do you use python and/or R? 
This sounds ingenious. I myself am trying to build a portfolio to showcase my excel and SQL skillsets. Do you have any advice or tips on how I'd get started on a portfolio? What data set would I use, where would I find one?...what would I do?...
I use a similar format at my current job as well 
Can you also share an example with me as well..?
screenshots of formats? 
May I ask how you define dirty data?
I currently clean a lot of data for use in pivot tables, Google docs/javacript, and Excel VBA.  I feel like my next step to become more proficient is to learn SQL queries and Access.  Is that the right step or is python/R a better route to become desirible for other companies in the future?
> The ability to recognize dirty data and elegant methods to clean it. I will test for this because it is likely going to be 90% of your job.

The truth is revealed!
I said on my CV that its only code cademy sql experience. Nearly finished my PhD at 24 and got through to interview was only seeing if my CV can get any bites yet and will go to interview for experience.
Got the job, they liked my codecademy skills
Most of my knowledge and skills were developed and refined working. While in my undergrad, all of the business processes and terms they teach are not in context. 

I learned more in 1 year at my job than I did during my 4 years of undergrad.

Awesome you're almost done with your PhD at 24. Keep it up!

what methods do you use for forecasting? 
Yeah i highly doubt I'd get it and can't accept it yet anyway. It's in the UK if that helps
And then they hear the licencing costs of Alteryx and that the M engine might be getting built into SSIS in the next year or two and nope the fuck out of there.

Respect where respect is due however - Alteryx is a great piece of software.
Lmao, you are in /r/ excel you know. But you're not wrong.  
Sister, actually, but no problem :)
/u/Bardaichila is on the money for working in excel. 

I am a data scientist, I tend to use the oracle mysql client and excel for anything quick and dirty, usually less than a thousand or two rows, minimal cleanup needed, no fancy math used, etc. If it's anything more complicated, sql in python and then pandas as your excel replacement is incredibly powerful, easy to make plots from, and easy to do fancy math on. I hope this helps.
Off the top of my head - data that prevents natural joins between tables (eg a lack of key fields) or degrades the reporting user experience (eg inconsistent dimension fields).
Avoid Access. Why settle for a go kart (Access) when you can have a Ferrari (SQL)? SQL Server 2016 Developer is 100% free. Go download it now!

If you clean a lot of data and have Excel 2010 or greater then you *must* leverage the Power Query plugin (it's a default tool in Excel 2016 where it's called "Get and Transform"). PQ is an absolute monster and has a big future in Excel and also other MS DB tools.

Learning SQL is much more important than R or Python - by a mile! These tools are 'nice to haves' for a **large**majority of jobs.
>  Nearly finished my PhD at 24

Good god who are you?
Something special confirmed: PhD at 24
Kick ass!!!! Thanks for the random message notification! Glad to hear good news.
phd work is typically more more like work than undergrad is. The majority of it is *not* coursework
What you learn in school is 'How to solve problems.'  Also you learn how to work and learn how to learn. Only doctors engineers and the like actually learn stuff that actually is used in their job. And before someone tears me apart I know I am over simplifying. Also had an engineering manager tell me that before an engineer learned to be a great engineer they needed some gray in their hair.
Got the job! And they're going to wait for me to finish up the thesis
I forecasted supplies.  Think razors and razor blades, printers and ink.  We forecasted based on several different things, we understood the business model of the products we were selling, forecasting on past behavior in the market place, and sellthru (what was actually sold to the end user).  The difference between selling on past behavior and sellthru.  Is one is shipment of products, while sellthru is what was actually purchased in the market place:  similar but unique behaviors.

Just got the job
Their jackets are expensive too, go figure.
I honestly thought of that, erased brother and typed out "sibling", decided that sounded silly, realized I was overthinking it, went back to brother and accepted the possibilities :p
I see, thank you!
Something special.
not that impressive. Lots of schools simply offer direct entry, no masters, 4 year programs. So its pretty easy to be done your PhD by 25 if you skip a masters.

Source: Am a PhD student who didn't skip a masters. 
I dont know how it works in USA, but I dont think that your PHDs are better than ours. Anyway, here someone being a PHD is usually considered a failure, since there were no opportunities in business.

In fact the guy is going to business as well, what also shows something.
Got the job
That's what I figured. All of my exposure to PhD students have been them doing research, but they've been in the sciences.

What do PhD students in business learn/do? I've debated going back for a masters, but opted to just build up the work experience for now.
Theory vs. Application
That's awesome. It's nice to see when your new employer is willing to be flexible. Thanks for the good news. I tried to open up the full comments and didn't find your response in the first few mouse wheel scrolls so I replied on the first one I saw.


what tools/methods..? 
What do you think of the new forecast tool in excel 2016?
Aw shit yeah! That'll teach you not to listen to naysayers, eh? Congrats!  I also just got that bump to senior! How's that for some funny shit?
Afaik that's not possible here in sweden. You need a MSc to be qualified, however there is still a possibility with an older, pre-Bologna degree of four years. How can you have enough knowledge of a subject without a MSc degree? Also, IMHO, it takes time to aquire the thinking necessary to do research.

On the other hand I know that teaching and taking courses is not always manditory abroad so you can finish in there years.
Care to elaborate? Very strange use of the word failure...
Congrats man!!
Well I'm in science but wanting to get out of academia and get into business
Amen.
I am actually getting Excel 2016 today.  I'll let you know when I play with it.
No idea, I feel the same way. I am in a program that made us do both, which is the norm in Canada. There are a few programs here that don't require it, I think its strange, I learned so much in my masters.
Well, loser. Usually only those who cannot find work at a "real" company stay and try to get a PHD.

Maybe if someone does stuff for Intel, then the PHD is useful, but still most would prefer someone working at Intel 100% of their time, rather than 40%.

Because the time at school is mostly wasted on red tape, chasing grands, teaching students... while real companies do real work - and pay real money for that. 
Had a chance to play with it?
Yeah me too! My uni's Earth science program is very broad and you get to specialize in your MSc. 

I have to admit though, I haven't finished my Msc yet...
