[Update] How's everyone doing?
Hey guys n gals! It's your friendly user turned flair mod here, lets keep it tight! : D

I look forward to helping the mod team keep everything nice and clean, but don't worry, I'm still going to jump on all the VBA post that I can!

See ya on the sub!
Between this sub and Google, my excel skills have gone from not-so-terrible to pretty ok.  I just want to thank everyone that contributes on here.  Not only giving formula solutions but taking the time to explain why something did or didn't work.  Keep up the fine work!   
Life is good. Excel is awesome. I love exploring this sub for hints and help.

Thanks guys!
Maybe you could emphasize for posters that they will get better quality responses if they use screenshots or file uploading (and recommend sites to upload their excel files). Just something I've noticed, that it's only when a person posts a screenshot that what they're asking for makes any sense. 

Also, what happened to mods posting a "+1" ?
Stressed from work. Have to collect and consolidate data for an audit I'm doing of sorts to apply for a grant. Have to go to every restroom on campus and record the details on the sinks, faucets, toilets, and showerheads. Then put it in all in a nice excel sheet.😩
Welcome and best of luck! I'll try not to shitpost you guys too much. 
Congrats! I have one question for you... is uBchickenz an appropriate way to address you?
I see what you did there
KEEP IT TIGHT!
Exactly!
Mods have softened on +1s because we decided it was a bonus rather than an expectation as it's not a requirement for the sub. It does happen, just not as frequently. 

We did try and emphasise the need to add examples and screenshots, but people don't set the right flair or read the sidebar, and based on our users, these are the same people who don't elaborate on their posts.

We genuinely do try, but unfortunately when our message falls on deaf ears, we can only do so much. 
Data gathering is the most work! All I can say is that it's worth thinking your toilet-data-gathering methodolgy through and capture as much information as you can. The only thing worse than having to do something boring is laborious and boring, is having to do it twice because there was a measurement you forgot to take (or whatever) the first time around., 
Thanks! Haha, yeah that'll work!
ah okay. well, thanks for moderating! 
