I love excel...what careers should I pursue? How do you use your advanced excel knowledge for income?
As for a career path, could look into Data Analysis. Often involves taking a large block of data and being able to adequately summarize it. Someone once told me that what truly enables you to start monetizing these skills and not simply solving the problems, but being presented with a vague problem and knowing HOW the problem should be solved (analogy is basic math problems vs. word problems).

In my day job, I handle large amounts of data about components, but need to prepare dashboards that executives can easily view, and figure out how to make decisions. It's the transition from large data to something that gives actionable results to management.

As for further development, I'd encourage you to subscribe to various XL blogs, and partipate in different XL forums. The latter not only helps you develop the problem solving skills, but gives you exposure to what other Experts come up with. The two forums I personally use are:

http://chandoo.org/forum/

http://www.ozgrid.com/forum/forumdisplay.php?f=8
Excel skills alone will be useful enough for entry level. But for higher up positions, industry and trade knowledge will be more useful. Basically, Excel skills will *support* your income and advancement in a field, but it probably won't *define* it. 
Depending on where you live look into Workforce Management. Specifically call centers which are most often rich in data and poor in actual analytics. Global teams can work remote etc. but they can spend 50%-90% of their day in excel. Tons of projects and analysis looking for hidden issues and metrics. 
There is no career path for Excel wizards per-se. My belief is: If you are a [insert JD* here], you will be a more valuable [JD] if you are an Excel wizard. I think you have discovered this too. Does that equate to monetization? Not so much--or at least--not necessarily. 

There are a handful of jobs where Excel prowess is table stakes. Yet, even in those jobs, being a top-notch Excel user does not necessarily translate to advancement. However, being an Excel neophyte will surely limit you. 

Being an Excel wizard is really an expression of a few things:

* You are a formidable problem-solver
* You are comfortable with data technology and architecture
* You have a decent level of acumen in one or more fields 

But these are all important for advancement, right? So how to monetize this collection of skills?

* Find ways to bring problem-solving to bear in an environment where it will be appreciated and recognized.
* Expand on your tool-set: Understand why Excel is good for some solutions, and no so for others. Understand (and learn, if you need to) what role other technologies play in solution design. This includes programming and databases, just to name two core areas.
* Be sure you understand the business at hand, the challenges it faces, and think through how to *add value* with your solutions.

The environmental piece is paradoxically easy, yet not easy to control. This is where you sit: The company you are in; The culture you are immersed in. You might be the greatest guru of Excel that ever lived, but if you are in an environment that doesn't care, you will go nowhere, even while the business benefits from your efforts. I do not subscribe to the idea that the business owes me tit-for-tat based on my delivery. Rather, I prefer to be a constant positive, and let the recognition happen. That said, you should be wary of situations where the deserved recognition does not come.

It can be very difficult for a person without canonical 'business credentials' to break into a role with an advancement path, no matter how good they are with Excel. For me, the 'constant positive' modality worked. Excel played a significant part of my success, but problem-solving, technology, and business acumen were equally significant.

\* JD = Job Description
Data Analyst. Business Intelligence. You'll probably want to learn SQL and some VBA at least, too.
A degree in business finance is a pretty practical way to be able to use excel. Maybe not as advanced as you like, but day to day you'd use it
finance.  I'm a staff accountant despite being a 42 year old junior in college.  you'd be surprised how many recent college grad CPAs don't know basic excel stuff like index, sumproduct, etc.

it's not fuck you money by any means, but it's a good start.

for a job where excel is your golden ticket, you might look for plants with massive scheduling needs.  there is a very large manufacturing plant in my city where being able to handle obscenely large excel workbooks and optimize production flow makes their recruiter drool.
In case you didn't see it, there's a thread here about all the different sorts of thins users are working in: 

https://www.reddit.com/r/excel/comments/4x9yp7/people_that_use_vba_at_work_at_least_a_few_times/

I don't really feel like I'm at a point in my "career" where I can give advice, but 95% of the finance guys I've worked with have been great at finance and OK at excel (but good at applying formatting very quickly.) Doesn't help that finance is a very broad field, but just to say that if you were really into finance and financial modelling, you wouldn't necessarily have to be a VBA developer to be outstanding. 

I think there's a very VERY large range of excel skills that are "nice to have" but not marketable in themselves. It sounds like you've done a lot of stuff, and saying "oh hey, I have worked with a lot of tricky processes, I can figure out yours real quick, and make them more efficient / automate them for you!" might be a more saleable emphasis to have. Just being good at excel is no good if people don't know what you can do for them with those excel skills. 

And yeah, VBA is a solid next step if you like automation and workflow improvements. If you want to do something on the side there are *a lot* of learning resources for python, and a lot of the concepts are transferable (though figuring out how to do X specific thing in VBA usually takes a few googles :P)

Honestly excel is a 101 skill. You need to get into more advanced programs, R, spotfire, Tableau etc etc, to turn it into a career. Outside of that excel will help you in any job in the business world.
I'm an accountant/financial analyst for a very large corporation. I use excel all day every day. I love it. There is ALWAYS  room for improvement. During our down time I look up excel tips. 
One specific area you could check is higher education. I work in institutional research and excel is a big part of my job. [Heres a decent overview](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Institutional_research). 

I like the field because of the array of projects I get to work on. Surveys, quant and qual research, reporting stats; it's a lot of fun. 
Accounting/finance 
You should look at software development. Seriously. I was once in your position. I love Excel and all it can do. My interest in VBA caused me to look at programming as a career. I have never been happier.

You will face similar challenges programming as you will making the perfect spreadsheet, but with the added benefit of a much larger problem space and no dependence on a single technology for your technical growth. 

Your mentality and motivation is that of a software developer. Take some programming classes at your local community college, and I'll be shocked if you don't love it.
Public accounting. Hope you like longggg hours and marginal starting pay though. Pros are good year over year salary increases, almost nonexistent unemployment, and the ability to chart your own course after 2-3+ years at a firm. As a bonus most firms will pump you full of booze at least once a month while you get to hang out with a bunch of coworkers who are overworked, horny, post collegiate, excel nerds just like you! 2 out of 3 of my colleagues are involved with someone they currently or previously worked with.

90% of your work will occur in Microsoft office, with the vast majority of it being in Excel. It's alarming what some basic Excel skills can do to give you a huge advantage over your peers.
You're spot on that being able to bring your skills to solve problems that are often vague is key. 

VBA/automation is great, but as far as advancement, it may be of limited use. You may get some appreciation and even recognition for making tasks easier/faster. But, for many reasons, some of which are all kinds of backwards, it doesn't seem that important in organizations. But to the extent that it makes YOU able to do more work, better work and more quickly, it can be extremely valuable.

I'd say learn as much data extraction, analysis, etc as possible. This may be SQL, it might be (the antiquated) MS query. It might be coding to process CSV files. This depends on the systems your working with.

Closely related to this, learn as much as you can about the business, the data that are important, how the data move through the systems, how all this stuff works together. You'll probably find lots of places where things are not working and where you can help.

Validate everything you're given to the greatest extent possible. If you are given a problem to work on, try and determine where all the numbers are coming from. Often the cause of something being "wrong" is that folks perform tasks the way they were trained, without any understanding (or even curiosity) about where the numbers come from our what they mean.

In my experience, even if you work closely and nicely with IT, they're not always necessarily going to be your ally. Again, this depends on the organization and the systems in use, but if, for example, you identify a problem that can't be adequately solved in the ERP system, IT may not be super-excited to help you establish a data extraction process to deal with it in Excel. Often there are good reasons for this, but sometimes it's territorial or intentional blindness (the ERP is fine!)
This is correct. I get paid very well to work with excel.  So often, I'm just given a large amount of data and told, "analyze this for me".  Which basically means, "I know this is important data but I have no idea what it is or how to interpret it.  Give me summaries, trends, and fancy graphs that I can show the CFO/CEO/VP so I can look smart."

This is really helpful, thanks!

I agree, I enjoy listening to people's vague ideas of what they need and then presenting them with information they didn't know they needed. Thanks!
This is a really useful answer.  Especially in a larger call center with good data logging, I imagine there is a lot of scope for interesting and useful analysis.

What job titles would you suggest looking for when looking to enter this field?  Are there important differences between entry level/mid-career positions?
While I don't personally work in a department that stares at spreadsheets all day, I do work in a call center. Our campaigns and representative stats are all tracked, from sales numbers and percentages to campaign tracking and acceptance. Our productivities and adherence to schedules, deviations from assigned times or goals, and everything in between. 

I find myself helping with special projects that they run, since they don't have well oiled place holders for some of the one-off information. I find it extremely interesting, though I don't know if I'd want to do that for 8+ hours a day. 

I do know members of that team are all at LEAST one band above myself, which I would assume begins them somewhere north of 60k+ a year for most of them, far more for the 10+ tenure crowd. 
This.... right here, all truth.



You're not going to get a 6 figure salary by being an Excel guru at your company.  The respect and prowess is earned and should be seen as a badge of honor if you will...showing what you're capable of in other areas of your personality.


Use the skills to break new ground, demonstrate insight and leadership and the reat will take care of itself.


Then Python, R, .NET and so on... :-)
That's what our excel wizard did.  He joined to just crunch/format monthly numbers.

He automated that with VBA in no time.  Then he went on to build a small database for managing containers in the business.  This grew in to an SQL database to handle the whole process of managing customer orders.

Our whole business now depends on this database, and our excel guru does pretty well out of it.
Whoa, that was just yesterday, what perfect timing! I totally missed it, so thank you for linking. Has a lot of good info!
How do you learn paid software like Tableau? I have seen lots of jobs requesting knowledge of it, but I can't seem to find out how to get my hands on a demo.

Thanks!
Seriously? I agree MSO skills are valuable for advancement, but hardly 'alarming' in terms of potential. The blabber about drunk free love opportunities is not good advice, and irrelevant.
i've done a lot of process optimization/efficiency projects that my company didn't even know it needed.  the downside is that you can easily make your coworkers redundant.
100%. If you are good with SQL and have knowledge of business processes (ie, what info would the supply chain manager need, what does the controller need to see) you could write amazing things that are easy for you but create simple dashboard that add crazy value. It's remarkable. 
These were a few titles at my last position. Business analyst, workforce analysis, trend optimizer.
Download a trial from Tableau and take the 2 classes on udemy by Kiril eremenko. That is a great way to start.
> Seriously? I agree MSO skills are valuable for advancement, but hardly 'alarming' in terms of potential.

I guess it depends on where you end up. Big4 will obviously require less Excel-fu due to their ability to leverage their size and software. I know of at least two cases where individuals went from Staff 1 to M1 in three years due to excel voodoo and the firms desire to keep them.

> The blabber about drunk free love opportunities is not good advice, and irrelevant.

Calm down Francis, the comment was made with tongue firmly planted in cheek. Frankly, I wouldn't recommend public to anyone now that you can't pull off a CPA without the credit equivalent of a masters degree. Sounds like you're on partner track though, so congrats and pass the kool-aid!

In case anyone took my prior comment seriously: Keep it in your pants. Zipper failure is the leading cause of involuntary separations in public. They won't ever fire you before the audits/returns have cleared unless you bang Becky on the xerox.
/u/ksvr "Boss, look what I did! I just saved us 8 hours of work a day!"

Boss: "Alright, Jimmy, looks like we don't need you anymore."


Duh, trials. Hah. EZ PZ right?

Thanks. I'll check out Kiril Eremenko too. 
> I know of at least two cases where individuals went from Staff 1 to M1 in three years due to excel voodoo and the firms desire to keep them

You know 2, and I know 1. But let's be honest, Excel voodoo was not the determinant. People who build their retirement on Excel skills number in the 10s, not 1000000s.

> Calm down Francis, the comment was made with tongue firmly planted in cheek.

Point taken. But I have no love for accounting.
> Point taken. But I have no love for accounting.

The mark of the true accountant.
