Games in excel
You can also check out / add them to the Games page of the wiki: 

https://www.reddit.com/r/excel/wiki/games

edit: or I think your account might be too young, actually, but if you would like them to be added, they can be :)
You made chess... in excel... Wow...
after playing sokoban (and closing it), any time i use arrow keys in excel i get the error popup:

"Sorry we couldn't find Sokoban.xls. Is it possible it was moved, renamed or deleted?"
This is HIGHLY impressive.
Wow
That was neat. Thanks for sharing!
Impressive stuff!
Nothing happens when I hit Start Game?
Cool stuff! I'll check it out when I'm not on mobile. I'm currently porting Pokemon Red to Excel, which is as ambitious as it is illegal. My goal is to have a 1:1 pixel to cell relation and for it to run semi smoothly on most computers.
[deleted]
Looking forward to playing a few when I get home.  
I've done a few games myself in excel (not really completed enough for release).  
I'm currently working on making a first person shooter in excel.
Feel free to add any of them you like.
Don't be that impressed. The AI only knows not to put itself in check. 
Just guessing, but try closing out of excel completely, might need to end the process in task manager (windows).
Did you enable macros? Try double clicking.
Is there a reason beyond the challenge? Playr already lets you play online 
Find me another excel minsweeper that works with both mouse buttons. Then you can call it childs play.
Sounds like it's better than me already.
[deleted]
Yeah it was fine after I did that - was more feedback since that's not something that should persist. 

Was at work before, so had quite a few sheets workbooks open. 
The challenge, mostly. I was also thinking that a lot of Gen 1 people are currently in office jobs, and would appreciate Pokemon Red on otherwise locked down computer environments. There is another guy I've talked to who is making Pokemon Red in Minecraft, which is a lot more challenging, he is also a lot further along.
I thought the same thing!
But building a program like that isn't really AI is it? AI would be if it could look ahead in some way, or if it started learning from its mistakes (but that would be nuts).
