When I paste content in from an outside source, Excel auto formats it to a date
Quick thought: Either, can you paste raw values and, possibly force the formats of the worksheet before pasting. Or, use VBA to parse all data as text strings? 
Are you pasting into a table?  I've had this happen a few times.  Sometimes alt+H+V and posting as values worked.  Sometimes I just created a separate working table that fed off the raw data pasted.  It's ugly and I hope someone has a better solution.
Have you tried applying the text format to the cells before pasting? Right click > format cells > text
It sounds like it could have something to do with the default text format in a specific sheet? Try changing it. 
> force the formats of the worksheet before pasting

This. Format the column in question as text before pasting
Follow up, asking just out of curiosity, why do you want the slash? Wouldn't it better, in most applications, to separate the numbers to columns? 
I'm pasting from a Google Spreadsheet into Excel. I think that might work.

Edit: Didn't work
eh....it doesn't really work.
>This. Format the column in question as date *before* pasting.

*As text. As per OP. 


But I don't want it to be a date. See, it thinks 3/5 is 5-Mar, and changes it to the second. I want it to stay as the first.
It's a bit of a story, but the short version is I am using VBA to separate the numbers and then find what number is the biggest. It's for inventory and using separate columns will ruin what is already there.
Sorry.  My next suggestion would be to just record a quick macro to format it for you.  I'm not as advanced as most people on this sub.
Sorry--that was my typo for a quick minute. 
Sorry--that was my typo for a quick minute. 
Sounds like you should programmatically convert ALL the existing data into separate columns. Cleanse dat data set fo life yo. 
I'm jut going to make them decimals. Seems to work and being decimals is allowed in my number sorting marco.
I'm doing something similar in VBA. The problem is that when I copy the data I want from my Google spreadsheet and then paste it into my Excel, some of that data gets turned into a date, which will mess up my VBA code

Parse that data to text as well! 

Edit: maybe post your vba mate
the big problem is that when i convert the date to text (which it thinks is 5-Mar) it turns it into a really....ugly number like 45360 or something like that.
It's still converting to a date. That just the excel serialized version, or how many days have passed since 1/1/1900.
