Great blog post on leveraging and improving your Excel skills to boost your income
Wow that article is horrifically edited but he does make good points. I like to think I'm on my way to six figures myself thanks to excel. 

I started as a nobody call center employee and have worked my way up to a pretty pivotal analyst position within the company due to my knack for excel and being able to figure out how to make it do amazing things. 
I couldn't finish it...he went too long talking about himself.
While there were some good points in the article, I was hoping for some more concrete information on what actually took him to the salary he is making, and in such a short amount of time.  
If I remember correctly he posted on this sub a couple month ago about his Udemy course. He was offering the course for free for the 100 first participants and I was able to join! I like his insights because he shows excel/vba as a business lever rather than simply a technical tool. His mindset is quite different than most of the excel guys (at least that was my feeling). His course actually motivated me to learn the basics of VBA
Wasn't sure whether to set the flair to discussion or advertisement. Went with discussion as I'm just posting it to share and interested in the banter. There's a good argument for calling it an advertisement as the blog asks people to sign up and repeatedly mentions services that the author offers. Mods, please do recategorise as you see fit.
Not only figuring out how to do projects for your company, but creating value by improving upon existing procedures. At my company, we did a report that took 45 minutes (took me an hour and 10 minutes because I was still learning) daily and since then I wrote a macro that brought the total time to 45 seconds. Not only does this show your supervisers that you're able to do this, it open's their eyes to where you can do it next.  
Where the hell do these jobs exist?
Ha yeah it is a little self indulgent. .
>  I like his insights because he shows excel/vba as a business lever rather than simply a technical tool. 

Frankly, if you (or your manager) isn't looking at all your technical tools as a business lever, you/they need to up your game. It's the mindset that makes such 'earnings potential' possible, not the tool itself.

The guy also seems a little full of himself.
Damn, increase in efficiency of 99%. I have only achieved 96% more efficiency by taking a process from 8 hours to complete to 20 minutes.
Aren't you afraid that you'll end up making your own job irrelevant? I'd be afraid that if you make your job easy and quick enough they'll have no need for you anymore and they'll dump you for a junior that can use your work.
I live in Saint Louis, for a great cable company that loves to promote from within . 
To be fair you need to include run time in these things. Honestly I'd feel way more accomplished doing what you did than what I did.
You should never, never look at it this way. 

A company worth working for would either use the new capacity to find ways to deliver on its mission, or recognize the value you just added--or both, really. Quoting from the article: "A good professional is someone who can take the pain of senior people away." Those senior people should love you for creating efficiency because it reduces their pain, and it makes them look good.  

It does not make economic sense for a company to discharge you in this scenario. If that does happen, the company has a problem--with its business model, financials, or maybe both--or maybe you are someone they want to get rid of. 

I am not saying creating efficiency will automagically lead to rewards. However, and regardless of the outcome, you will have that accomplishment as a feather for your cap, which you should put in your resume as "proven ability to create efficiency, improve quality, and drive consistency". Those words may sound buzzy, but the senior person reading this resume will be much more inclined to interview you than the person who wrote "I am really good at Excel".

Mine was converting a hand done process to excel. Really all I did was think "why aren't we using a computer for this? I'm not fucking sitting here for 8 hours doing this."
