Need to learn Excel for a job
learn how to use google, it's a great help. learn how to shorten your questions into keywords.

"excel sort a list" , "excel look up number" 

Vlookup, Sumifs, Index, Match are the main formulas I use. 

I think there are great tutorials on youtube too. Good luck!
I often consult this [site](https://www.techonthenet.com/excel/formulas/) to look up built-in functions from Excel, and VBA. It's extremely helpful and informative!
View - Freeze top row

Print - fit all columns on one page

Conditional formatting - highlight duplicates

Data - Text to Columns (delimiter or spaces)

Data - remove duplicates

Data - Filter (sorting)

Hide & unhide columns

Ctrl+1 Number (general (allows formulas)); Number (decimal places); Date (format date appearance); Border (lines & their  placement)

F5/Refresh All to refresh formulas or connections 

Page Layout - Print titles (Top row) 

These things will make you a god to the standard user. To a real user, you have to know the useful formulas (vlookup/sumif/countif/hlookup/index(match)/Len/IF/Right/Left/ISNUMBER(SEARCH)
Excelisfun on YouTube is a great resource! 
Mr Excel has some good tutorials as I recall.
The basics don't really change;
Learn about cell references, cell formatting, conditional formatting.
If you have a logically maths brain then you can really excel! 
The most important formula I ever learned was VLOOKUP - imagination is your limit.
Pivot tables are very powerful and very easy to use, look at date grouping and how to change from count to sum in the total columns.
F4 is your friend - learn what it does and how it affects your formulas!
Good Luck.
Do you know what kind of things you'll need to use Excel for? I was a bit of a beginner to Excel when I started my last job but figured out as I went along what I needed to do, and then what Excel skills that required. Once you know roughly what you'll be doing, it's a simple google to figure everything else out!
Google how to format a data table properly, make your tables dynamic (using ctrl+t), and learn pivot tables. Those things will make your life a lot easier, and make it much easier to answer questions and modify your summary pivot tables on the fly when you are in a meeting and your manager says "what about x...", which always happens to me. I find sumif, sumproduct, and countif to be too unwieldy and inflexible for my needs.

Also learn filters (which are built in to dynamic tables) and sort. I use those constantly. I also use index-match every day.

Down the road a few weeks/months:
Needing to pull data from disparate sources makes Power Query a godsend, and powerpivot is amazing once it starts to click in your brain (which took a while for me). Once I started using those two plugins, my need for VBA all but disappeared.
What do you need to do with excel?  In my experience, I've learned to use it by using it for everything.  Do your taxes, simple calculations, complex matrices, whatever you've got, throw it at excel.  Write grocery lists, sort them, group them, add prices and figure out how to do subtotals of dairy items and paper goods, etc.  When you get to a point where you don't know how to do something, it's much easier to look up that one specific task than it is to find a point-by-point walkthrough of all the features and formulae.  Copy all of your contacts into excel, and figure out how to import, make changes, and export the lists from whatever you use now.  Then figure out how to do a mail merge, and come explain it to me, because mail merges are the fucking devil.  

Also, if your job will have anything to do with accounting, look up the three standard financial reports (Cash flow, Profit and Loss, and a Balance Sheet).  Read up on the differences and uses for each one, understand how they relate to business, and create a few fictitious ones as practice.  
Depends how you learn. Ie are you a visual learner (learn by watching someone do it)

or can you learn just by reading and visualizing it?

I'm of the former group, and I found a channel on Youtube called ExcelIsFun

It is awesome, and the guy is very enthusiastic about what he does. Give it a go
Can you afford to do Lynda.com for a month?  The quality of their tutorials is amazing. I have been doing excel and Lotus for over 30 years and they are the best I have found. You need to practice. Do a budget.  If you have a hobby , try to create  a relevant spreadsheet.  Also try free universities like Cousera or Khan Academy. Worse comes to worse YouTube has some decent tutorials as well.  I can't recommend practice highly enough.  Remember Excel is just a tool, that enables you to solve problems.  I often suggest to people to write in a sentence what they are trying to do, and the create the formula.
If you have a few weeks before the class starts go down to your local community college and take a class.
Look up Sali Kaceli on YouTube.  I'm in the same boat as you right now and his two hour video is helping.
Basically find a data set and start playing with it.  Experiment what would happen if you did....

Also, try to get good at using the hotkeys as much as possible.  I know it is tough when you first start, but if you make a conscious effort to not touch the mouse as much as possible, you'll start to quickly learn the hot keys and you'll save yourself a ton of time down the road.  If you don't know the hot key to something, Google it right away and learn.

Also, always assume there is an easier way to do something. That forces you to think creatively and explore Google for a better solution.  If you spend 8-10 hours on Excel for a month straight and always are passionate about learning new things everyday, you'll be pretty good in a month.
Saved r l8

Follow ExcellsFun on youtube, he has very detailed videos on pretty much everything.
Hi there, a close friend prepared an Excel Formulas Trainer in which you can Train & Learn Yourself.  
It consists of 3 modules; 1. Beginner 2. Medium 3. Advanced. Especially the 1st and 2nd modules consist of Excel milestones ;) 
Here is the link; http://www.someka.net/product/excel-formulas-trainer-excel-template/ 
Hope it would be helpful! Good luck! 
For online courses for Microsoft excel, you can check out [Career Academy](http://www.careeracademy.com/page/CA99slsignup). They have excel course for beginners, intermediate and advanced.

Here is a look on the course outline:
Microsoft Office 2013 Excel Basic Series
Course 01 - Getting Started with Microsoft Excel 2013
Course 02 - Performing Calculations
Course 03 - Modifying a Worksheet
Course 04 - Formatting a Worksheet
Course 05 - Printing Workbook Contents
Course 06 - Managing Large Workbooks
Course 07 - Customizing the Excel Environment

Microsoft Office 2013 Excel Intermediate Series
Course 01 - Creating Advanced Formulas
Course 02 - Analyzing Data with Logical and Lookup Functions
Course 03 - Organizing Worksheet Data with Tables
Course 04 - Visualizing Data with Charts
Course 05 - Analyzing Data with PivotTables, Slicers, and PivotCharts
Course 06 - Inserting Graphics
Course 07 - Enhancing Workbooks

Microsoft Office 2013 Excel Advanced Series
Course 01 - Automating Worksheet Functionality
Course 02 - Auditing Worksheets
Course 03 - Analyzing and Presenting Data
Course 04 - Working With Multiple Workbooks
Course 05 - Exporting Excel Data
Seriously, if you can do vlookup and sumifs alone, you'll be better than 99% of the people that claim they're proficient with excel, you'll save tons of time, and you'll be 'that person in the office who can make these two charts into one' which is a good person to be!
Thanks for your reply. After a brief overlook it seems to me that this website is helpful if you already have experience with Excel. So i will bookmark it for later on.  Thanks
I think this is a pretty good bullet point list that represents 90% of the Excel needs in a non-technical field.

I would add, but maybe it's personal :

Standard : Graphs

A bit more advanced : Pivot Tables, Goal seek and Data tables
Thanks. Looks very helpful.
The best
Thanks. A few people mentioned it.
I know google is my friend but i just want to have a little headstart. Thanks for your post.
Thanks. I will have a look at these subjects as well.
Thanks for your post. I will have a look at these subjects.
Thanks
The last sentence is actually the impotent one. You need to know what problem you want to solve. It is actually basic programing. Sometimes all you need is a structure chart. 
Assuming by sumifs you mean array sumifs? The non array ones are so easy I'm pretty sure normal people can do them
Impotent or important?
I do not mean that, I mean any kind of sumif. The vast majority of people who put "Proficient with Microsoft Office" on their resume basically just mean they can adjust margins in word and do auto-sum in excel. 

The amount of people I've met who are making bank in 'Business Inteligence' or 'Analytics' who do not know how to do either a VLOOKUP, INDEX match, or even SUMIF is fucking hilarious. 
Came to ask the same question.  I hope it was 'important.'
Asking the hard questions. 
Wow. I mean sumif literally tells you how to use it, not even somewhat ambiguous like vlookup
Indeed it was. Sorry I'm a non native speaker and sometimes I pick the wrong spelling/wrong word. My native language used to use there an germanic word in this meaning "wichtig". *after 5 min googling* intressting in German there is a Word Important with that meaning but not longer used in the German language.  TIL
Oh I agree. Personally I believe most people just have closed minds and know someone ELSE in the office can do it, and thus would rather rely on them (you!) to do it. 

And honestly, good for us, because that person doesn't get canned.
Well you write in English beautifully, I just figured it was a spell checker error.  I can neither read or write any other language other than English with the exception of a bit of French.  I can order wine, get food, and get a train ticket.  Take this all as good natured teasing from me, and from myinnervoice I would guess.  Impotent has less than desirable sexual connotations especially for a male.  Back to your original comment.  Preparing how to approach solve a problem in Excel often takes planning.  I like your term structure chart.
Huh, interesting. Haven't worked before, so I assumed that being able to Google was a necessary skill.

Suppose that's what I get for being naive.
In German it is "Strucktogramm" actual combined word for Strucktur (structure) and gramm the suffix for something that is written. To growing up multi lingual is sometimes a problem. Like mixing up languages or syntax. Something that makes completly sense in German, lower German and Dutch doesn't make sense in English nor French :D and then there something called "false friends" a chapter for itself.
