Freelancing
I do a small amount of freelancing. I have not used a contract/freelance website, just through referals of people on forums that I participate on.

Biggest challenge is scoping of work, and working with clients to figure out exactly what they want. My particular expertise is in dashboards and VBA, so clients often approach with just a large block of data and I'll work on getting a rough draft and a quote to them. Work for me ebbs and flows, depending on what type of work is, and how busy you want to be. I did about 100 hours last year.

Pricing can vary on the type of work (basic formulas vs. heavy coding). I started at $60/hr, mostly because that's an easy number to sub-divide into minutes (lol). Contrasted with a rush job that was over the weekend and lots of coding where I charged $200/hr. Pick a decent number to start, and then you can adjust as you want more/less work. I'd recommend having a "minimum" time. E.g., bill in 15 minute increments. That way even if a task only takes you personally a couple minutes, you're still getting something.

Overall, I would recommend it in the sense that I love the work, the challenges, and the people. Only negative I have is it can be difficult setting things up to ensure payment of services. If you're working with a business directly, risk is low, and I don't have a problem invoicing after delivery. For individuals, I'd suggest either doing a 50% now, 50% after, or have a limit to how much "credit" you'll give them. E.g., project is open ended, but you bill after every $250. My experience is that most people are pretty honest, but I've had a couple clients cut-and-run. Good news is that I'm not out any actual money, just my time. Still, it stinks when it happened.

More reading material: http://dailydoseofexcel.com/excel-consulting-buyers-guide/
If I may add to OP's question, what skills are most necessary and most valuable for freelance Excel work? And what are the best and fastest ways to acquire those skills?

I have passed the MOS Excel Expert exams and I'm now reading *Excel VBA Programming for Dummies* by John Walkenbach. What else should I learn?

Also, I have a BA in the humanities, so I don't know much about finance. Can I do freelance Excel work without having a finance background? If I need to learn about finance, which books or resources are most relevant?

Thanks for your help!
Yo, I posted about my freelance experience in /r/vba a little while back 

https://www.reddit.com/r/vba/comments/4tyvaz/freelance_work/
I'm just getting started myself only because I greatly miss working with VB, VBA, ASP, SQL/databases, and basically automating business processes.  I have my own successful LAN Center with others running day to day stuff, but I miss the work doing that sorta thing.  Awesome feeling knowing how much time you saved someone, or pulling data according to highly complex criteria that nobody else could figure out.  =)
I currently freelance with Excel, Access and various adobe programs. I, so far, have had great expirence's doing freelance. How much? Not a whole lot honestly. For one I haven't pursued this full time. I'm only part time as I am still in college. I also tend to under charge. I haven't had any luck using websites to get work. All of my work has came from previous jobs who recommended me. It takes a long time to build up a solid and consistent base of people. 
Great. Thank you for the information and personal background story. I am looking for a way to make $150 a month. I have 2 years of experience as a data analyst, monkeying in Excel and VBA.NET. I also have experience web scraping and working with JavaScript, HTML, ADO.NET, SQL. 
How can I asses my chances of making $150 a month? Can I work for you, since you seem to have a strong network, and then give you a cut of my work pay?

EDIT: I have looked through some of your responses to questions about Excel VBA. I am confident that I know those solutions and many more. Just wanted to give you some idea of myself.
Do you need any help?
I don't know anything about UpWork; I've tried several online freelance websites and found them all terrible for Excel. Awful rates due to high competition from foreign bidders.  I've actually attracted most of my Freelance clients initially through Craigslist -- less competition there, so people are willing to pay normal consulting rates. More average Joes as well, as Craigslist attracts a wider audience than a Freelance-specific website. Do good work and you'll get repeat customers and referrals. You should have no problem at all pulling in $150 a month with Excel skills alone if you can pull in the clientele -- You can make $150 off just two or three very simple jobs.  

Agree 100% with /u/CFAman -- the biggest challenge is scoping. Most people I work with have a very basic understanding of Excel and just don't truly know what they want. I spend more time than I'd like just trying to understand EXACTLY what a client wants to put into the spreadsheet, and what they want to get out.
You should cold call profitable local small or medium business - companies that are often to small to employ specialists with enough coding knowledge but usually have the same kind of problems that need to be solved. 

If you find some that are not in a tech related industry you can find some grateful customers who would not hire a full time excel guy. I would recommend family owned restaurants or artists like photography studios, etc.

Ask them if they have a need to automate tasks, could use some insight into their data or need help in improving some existing solutions. While some may not have come up with the idea to get external help, they will likely have lots of ideas that could improve their business once you steer them into the right direction or show an example (dashboard, business plan, etc).
Do you mean $150/Hour or is $150 a month really what you are trying to make?
Not yet, sorry.  Still in the formation stage.  =)
Good idea about Craigslist. 

u/forhire_husky , I think chance of making $150 is certainly doable, just a matter of finding the work. To that point, I don't think I'm at a point yet where I can hire people, as while I have a range of people I work with, the amount of work they bring in is still inconsistent. It's hard finding that niche of having people know that something is doable in XL, will take awhile, but not something they can do themselves. I'll keep your name in mind though if I come across some extra work. :)
How soon was it before you started seeing clientele contact you?
Sometimes it would take two or three days to get a hit. Sometimes I'd get five in a single day. Certainly not steady. I'm not to the point where I get more clients from referrals or repeat business. Can't tell you how many times I've done a really simple 5-minute task for someone, charge 'em $25, and get a response "WOW I'm COMING TO YOU FOR EVERYTHING!"  

You may have luck on UpWork. Personally I tried ThumbTack, Fiverr, and FreeLancer. Didn't like any of them. ThumbTack has possibly the most potential but it doesn't really accommodate Excel work.
