What's faster on a Macbook Air: Excel for Mac or Excel for windows running in a VM
Excel in VM is just way faster and much less crashes 
I know at Apple they run Excel in a VM, because of the performance issues with Excel for OSX (this was a couple of years ago. Things may have changed by now).
Why punish yourself by using excel for mac?
i think it would be best to boot camp windows 10. I believe Mac can use only single core while Windows are able to utilize more than 1 core.
Depends on the hardware of the vm. At work, vm use to be faster, but I just got a new computer and is faster on desktop now
How long did it take you to adjust to using the Mac keyboard for excel shortcuts? 
>multiple pivot tables pulling from a reasonably large data tab.

Different solution: put your data into Access, build your pivot tables on top of the Access file for a nice speed boost.

But it is really interesting to learn that STILL the difference is night and day.
[deleted]
WOW, I just installed office for windows in my Windows 10 VM and you're right; it's night and day. There's basically no slowdown in windows at all.

SOLUTION VERIFIED!
[deleted]
Yes. Excel in Vm is much faster.  I almost wonder if it's on purpose - a strategy by Microsoft to push their os.
you mean they use Numbers in OSX, right? ;)
It took a lot courage for them to use Excel.
Interesting. Do you know what keyboards they were using when running excel? I'm far more efficient in excel with a PC keyboard. 
Windows is considerably faster in a VM vs. Native. Mac OS and and even Office for Mac has supported more than one core for a long time.
hmmm... I've never really used access, but that might be a fun one to try. 
There is I do it daily. Open a new instance of excel. Go to start and open it or the shortcut on your desktop. Dont use file open unless I want to open in the same instance. 

You have awarded one point to _bellicose100xp_.    
[^Find ^out ^more ^here.](https://www.reddit.com/r/excel/wiki/clippy)

It now allows collaboration. You've never seen anything like this before!!!
Whatever board apple sells, and the external touchpad for a mouse.
Do you mean Windows is faster in VMWare or Parallels as compared to Bootcamp? For some reason I presumed Bootcamp - being more 'native' - was faster than any of the VMs.
try holding ctrl+shift and clicking the icon of the open sheet on the taskbar.
Even for the finance folks? I couldn't imagine using the touch pad in excel. 
Considering that you can run applications in parallels inline with Mac OS without having to stop what you're doing reboot into Windows etc...
Yeah I hold shift and click excel from the start tool bar. It opens a new instance of excel
At a certain point, you stop needing the mouse anyways.
Personal preference for this individual, but yes.
