Excel VBA guides that walk-through the process of writing real world business Macros?
It's big, but for general Excel/VBA nothing beats __Professional Excel Development__ (ISBN-13: 978-0321508799). Alternatively, look through the VBA/programming/programmer forums in www.excelforum.com or www.mrexcel.com and read requests for help, resulting code and subsequent discussion.
Your expectations of what you'd learn in a real MBA program might be a little far from reality in terms of learning VBA/etc.

I did a tutorial recently on how to code a user defined function to create an XMIRR formula recently which you can find here: http://www.triviumfinancialgroup.com/financial-modelling/xmirr-function-using-vba/.

You'll have to put your name/email in to get the download - sorry about that. Working on a way to just have a simple password page with all the downloads.

I'll be doing a bit more on various VBA related stuff (interspersed with other modeling topics) as they relate to finance. If you have any specific requests, let me know.

Otherwise, William Preinitz has some great books.
Any recommendations from this decade, or is PED still the gold standard? 
Thanks, I just picked up that excel book as a reference 
I'm going to caveat this because I've gone through this and Walkenbach's. Both of these books are great choices for advanced development, but for OP's purposes of trying to learn B-school concepts, and apply them through simulated, real applications, these books would not be at the top of the list. Quite simply, they cover too much.

William Prenitz does a great job with teaching how to create a VBA model for structured finance (which applies to oh so many other areas of finance), Gunther Loeffler does a great job teaching students in depth VBA to create formulas and models for credit risk analysis. In both of these books, you aren't just learning VBA, you're learning financial topics treated with VBA.

Just my 2c.
Currently predictive analytics, trend forecasting, analyzing data across multiple sheets and spitting out what if scenarios. Standard scenarios such as to ship or not to ship. Who to ship to. How much and from where. 

I'm on Mac so I'm limited to a non power pivot world but I'd bet there's some nifty code and conditional formatting I can apply to pivot tables, duplicate the same output format for BAU process.
Honestly I have read both, and prefer Walkenbach's "Excel Power Programming with VBA." It teaches a lot of the same stuff (plus and minus some) and is a lot easier to follow, and is updated with all the new versions of Excel. I would highly recommend it.
Thank you and you are correct. I'm the type of learner that bests internalizes information when I can apply it a meaningful portion of my life such as my work place or personal experience. And as a person with limited assets it's going to apply mostly to my work. I work with whole units not dollars and change.
That sounds a little bit more like data analysis than mba finance.

Jon Foreman's book, Data Smart shows you how to do exactly what you're trying to do and would be a much better place to start. 
+1 for Walkenbach's.
Thanks I'm jumping into it. 
