[#ExcelChamp] Round 1 - Oct 3rd - 9th
Encountered severe problems with the first part. PowerQuery refused to work with protected worksheets, and it looks like PowerPivot is not available for Excel 365 University.

Finally manually sorted the suckers, but I don't think that was the answer they were looking for ;)
~~Hm, am I missing something? When checking the M$ page, I see no links to download the file, and I've "registered" for the event and received their email.~~

Nevermind, found the link. Just had to scroll down a bunch.
[Direct link to spreadsheet](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/gxcuf89792/attachments/gxcuf89792/ExcelWorldChamp/94/1/ExcelChampINTL-Rnd1.xlsx)  if you are NOT a resident of Belgium, Canada, China, Denmark, Finland, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, Philippines, South Africa, Sweden, or Turkey.
Hi,  

Do you know if it is already too late to subscribe? 
Everytime I go to the link and try to "like" the post to subscribe I get the following error message : http://imgur.com/a/xTrBz  

Thank you in advance
Swedish page :/

I can't attempt as a swede?
I'm having basically the same problem with Excel 2010, and other people are mentioning it in the thread for the international competition. Maybe it is fine for other versions of Excel.

I am going with a workaround too, and likewise I don't think it is the approach they are looking for.
Is there an 'Answers' copy?

As an keen amateur, I think I've done quite well, but want to check my work.
you should be able to register until the 9th (submission deadline) IIRC. 

I used to get that error too, I went into my microsoft account settings and filled out more details, then I could log on to the MsTechCommunity without problems afterwards. Cant remember exactly what it was, sorry. 
You should be able to with this link: http://aka.ms/ExcelChampSE
It's funny that Microsoft did not realize PowerQuery/PowerPivot doesn't function on protected spreadsheets, no matter what your version is :)
Ok thank you for your answer. I provided only required info to create the account I'll look into it then it is probably the same issue.
it says the swedish  excel SM  was already concluded
yeah I had the issue across platforms and browsers, some MS people on the forums kept saying "try using a different browser" but I think it may be a problem in the required info during signup vs post-signup.
It looks like you're out of luck this year :(

See you in... ModelOff?
I recall I encountered a similar problem. Switched to Internet Explorer and it worked alright.  :-P
I suck anyway, but woudlve been fun to see what level it was on
This one isn't hard. It's just that we're not working with the intended tools, since worksheets are protected which disables these tools. There is a workaround but I spent too long on it.

The formulas it's asking for in Part 3 are quite easy with the new Excel 2016 functions. The charting test isn't a test of your Excel fu, but more of your data visualization chops.

Because it had no time limit, I'd say it's no match against ModelOff...
> ModelOff

everyone from modeloff is within banking.. (I checked the top scores). Do you need economic knowledge when competing?
No, you don't need Economics. But it wouldn't hurt. You do need some familiarity with accounting and finance. It is a financial modeling contest after all.

With that said, why not look at their past questions and test yourself against them? Most are available on their website, with some solutions worked on by Contextures.

One of my favourites is when they ask you to model a Snakes and Ladders game using Excel.
it's def hard.  I tried some questions and I feel very limited because all formulas I know is =omfel(letarad(e2;$a:a:$b:b;2;0);0) and =antal.omf(b:b; "text";c:c; "another text")

it's absically all I know, and then I know how to record a macro.
I've been looking more into this and saw a wikipedia section dedicated to financial modeling. do you have any places to direct me to test these things out?

i think it can be good exercise for me to test new things with a bunch of data given like one of the data analyse competition from modeloff website
Sorry. So far, I have been testing Financial Modeling ability solely through ModelOff. I don't work for a bank or even in the financial industry, so I don't get to practice as part of work.

A stint in r/excel has helped me a lot in array formula abilities, though! A ton of questions here can usually be solved by arrays, plus judicious application of INDEX/MATCH and IF.
