Programming subreddit was laughing about a primitive Excel messanger. How would it look like if it was done the right way?
Yes, an actual messenger would use the WinAPIs to connect via the [winsock library](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/aa228119). But honestly, it's so much easier to implement better performing programs with more features using an actual programming language as VBA is merely a translated scripting language. It has its roots from VB5/6, which is over 18 years old at this point. ^(omg ^VB6 ^is ^legal ^now)

Edit: I'd also like to add that the method of referencing worksheets in the manner used in this excel messenger kills HDDs/SSDs due to the constant reading of the disk to access the stored/written data from the other clients.
You do this with all Excel, no WinSock API needed.

You have a central Excel to act like a database, everyone has a copy of their own Excel which opens a ADO connection to the central Excel to write.  Everyone elses Excel just needs a polling loop to keep pulling the chat log from the central Excel file.

I'd imagine worst case scenario you could write and IRC client in excel. Not the server but just the client.
I can have a look at it. Excel chat with multiple channels that works on a global scale sounds fun.
I'm just thinking of a way to listen for updates / push updates in a less intensive way than "update every 20 seconds" 

Maybe you could do it as a VBA code in outlook rather than / as well as Excel? 

You can send emails with excel, have the other recipients participants in a list, and send out a "refresh" email when you send a message. 

Your outlook would basically "listen" for emails with the right tag, delete them, and then refresh the workbook if they have it open, pulling the data. 

So you'd be using outlook as a sort of "fake" server. This requires outlook be open all the time though, and the code isn't maintained in the macro :/
https://youtu.be/8WYHDfJDPDc?t=3m13s
I understand that Excel is not the tool to build such stuff.

But I wonder how this would look like if someone built an Excel Messanger one just as a proof of concept - using best practices (possible in Excel).

The method used in the website is used for comedic values - it is wrong on multiple levels (but as a joke: we could say that it surprisingly works as for something that can be done in few minutes). However Im interested in a real solution, something that would be "as good as possible in Excel".

edit: I updated the opening post to make it a bit more clear
For sending messages I would use winsock, for receiving messages I would use RealTimeData (RTD) - this involves writing a COM server, not fun especially if you do it "properly" in C++/ATL 
Personally, I'd use excel clients and a central mysql database. That avoids any desync issues with two clients attempting to write at once.

Of course it woukd still be a terrible idea.
It sounds extremely painful to work with though, useful upon completion.
Ah yes. The infamous Kelly Rowland sending sms via Excel XD
IMHO we should stick to just Excel. And to be precise: pure, out of the box Excel - so no third party add-ons that solve some problems, or add a whole programming language to Excel.

The server (if any) should also be hosted in Excel. The idea is: you can run it on your work computer without installing anything, or running some "third party" programs. So pure Excel both as server and client.
I just pointing out the pure Excel solution.  A real Db would be ideal, though MySQL requires an 3rd party driver, MSSQL and Access/Jet do not.
> It sounds extremely painful to work with though

That is the fun part in developing this.
With pure Excel, minimal VBA, you probably can't do much better than the linked workbook solution. My proposed solution while a bit more complex is still pure Win32 + Excel. The [RTD function](https://support.office.com/en-us/article/RTD-function-e0cc001a-56f0-470a-9b19-9455dc0eb593) is built-in to Excel. The RTD server is just a COM server, which is just a DLL with known entry points (could use many different languages).
