I'm starting an Excel user group at work. Any ideas?
Best website: techonthenet.com
Ask members to add their name to a spreadsheet. You can't join unless you can add your name to the spreadsheet.

Meet on Wednesdays.
What will you "get in return" for creating and running this group? Because it is very possible that you will receive lots of questions, answer to 95% of them, but those remaining 5% will get really butthurt that you did not answer them immediately (because for example you were doing your own work) - and this might put you in a bad light.

And it is quite possible that for all this work - you will get nothing in exchange; although depends on organizations.

A big problem for many inhouse Excel users is that instead of focusing on their work, they need to solve problems of braindead colleagues - hopefully you get some benefits in exchange (trading favors etc), but in many organizations, you get nothing in exchange, or you even dig your own grave, because some HR rep, or other important person will get super angry at you that it took you 1 day to answer to their email.
-Automate pivot table creation

-Automate inserting formulas into commonly used reports

-Automate opening a file to retrieve index's instead of copying and pasting every time. 

-Frequency Distribution functions to count N number instances when one or more criteria occurs. 

-Replacing IF functions with INDEX-MATCH or replacing concatenate-vlookup  with index-match

These are some of the big hurdles for me over the past year. 

Haha, that is really funny! I just found that website for the first time like 15 minutes ago and bookmarked it because it looks fantastic. Thanks for the great tip!
Oh man, that would be too much fun! I can hear them now, "But isn't the point of this group partially to learn excel?"
We would, but I've already scheduled a slot for 4 pm on Fridays so that everyone can start their weekend off on a high note! After all, everyone else loves Excel as much as I do, right?
I am not particularly looking to get back anything for organizing this other than the satisfaction of knowing that I had an idea for improving my company and I acted on it to the best of my ability. Also, I'll surely get better at Excel and that is really the main goal that I have for myself and others in the context of this group.

I think your concerns are very valid, but my hope is that they may not fully apply here at my company. I know, and have a good relationship already with the majority of the people that are going to take part and only those that want to be are being added to the group. I have also made it clear that there is no obligation for anyone in the group to take part should they choose not to down the road.

Fortunately, I really enjoy solving problems, especially those in Excel. I also really enjoy helping out coworkers. These things are fulfilling for me. The group is not so large that I anticipate a large number of people asking questions constantly, but if that ends up being the case, I know that I will not be the only one answering them. If it becomes a problem, I don't mind speaking up. Also, if I have the opportunity to solve a problem for someone important, I see that as a good chance to further develop a good reputation with the right people.

Hopefully I am not being naive, but I'd rather try this and fail than not! Wish me luck! Thank you for your thoughtful response!
Thanks! While I am not familiar with all of these, they sound like some great topics to bring up. If I end up doing periodic tips like I want to, having a list of stuff like this will be really helpful.
Oh man, that's not going to be good for attendance. No one is going to want to do optional work shopping Friday before they slink out early
You know what everyone loves? 4:00p meetings on a Friday. Good times.



/s
4PM on a Friday?  Kidding?  Everyone is going to hate you or just not show up.
Good on you. I do something similar, not just Excel. It's an informal email I send out that has tech tips (most of which deal with Excel.)

I started out sending it to a small group of people who I knew were interested. The list grows as people hear about it and ask to be added, or people forward it to them. 

I've never asked management for permission, and I'm extremely thankful that I don't work at a place that is screwed enough that there could be anything negative that would come from such a harmless, well-intentioned thing.
