what useful thing can you do in excel with stocks that companies don\t already have on their website?
by the look of the quick downvote I want to clarify that it's not to make money it's a way for me to get better at excel and the first place I thought I could get some easy data from was from stock websites.
[deleted]
If you want to play around with stock information, it is better to use dedicated software like Amibroker or Metastock instead of Excel. They can do charting, technical analysis, and lots of other calculations that would be a pain in Excel.
I use VBA to download historical stock data from Yahoo Finance.  It comes in a CSV file, so it's really easy to handle the data.
I too am learning my way around excel... If you have any suggestions besides youtube tutorials, which are very helpful! Let me know! Good luck
On your journey! 
For those wanting to track their investments, I actually found Google Sheets had more functionality. Sorry not quite what you asked.

Find out their WACC. Download their last five years of financials. Multiply their WACC by Assets. See if their NOPAT is > than the number you came up with. 

P.S. If you don't know what this means. Maybe you should passive invest in a 60/40 portfolio. 
You could run a regression...
ahh that's smart.

so take big companies of a field and compare that to the price of that field?
XML / XBRL is the acronym.

Does anyone actually grab the data in this format? I'm only moderately familiar with XML and haven't had the patience to figure out how to use it efficiently in conjunction with Excel..
the thing that sparked my interest for this was that I learned a ribbon in excel which you can find in "data-> import from web". 

if you press that ribbon/tab you can import data from websites meaning you do n't have to copy paste it yourself or write it down manually. So I think that could be a good way to import data via (if you already didn't know that of course!)
what is your occupation?
can you elaborate on this because I find google excel to be really annoying with all its limits.
> Maybe you should passive invest in a 60/40 portfolio.

Goodness. I don't think you're talking to a pension fund, foundation, or 50-year-old.
cool thanks!:D

just have to find out what wacc and nopat is but I'll use google for that:)

thank you a lot!


District manager -  use excel for inventory management, budgets, and expenses... 


Well there's alot of like =GoogleFinance formulas and others to pull data.
ahh cool
Sorry not detailed much but things like dividend info, GICS, etc can pull out to google sheets easily and always be up to date. It's worth googling because I know some templates have been created before out there. 
