Office 2010 still good enough?
Even the biggest investment banks in the world still use Office 2010. 2013 and 2016 are derivatives of this, mainly just adding in a few new features such as PowerPivot - which you can still use in Office 2010.

Go ahead and get 2010 if you can get it for cheap.
The main difference between Office 2016 (*don't call it Win2016*) and 2010 is that 2016 include the data model and Power Pivot but these are things that can be added to Office ~~2016~~ ( I mean 2010) using add-ins

[would you like to know more?](https://courses.edx.org/courses/course-v1:Microsoft+DAT206x+6T2016/info)

I'm stuck at work with 2010 and it's perfectly fine for the job I have to do. But I have 2016 at home and sometimes I feel a little bit with my hands tied up at work.
Software support and security. Mainstream support for Office 2010 SP2 ended on 2015-10-13, and contacting MS with support questions is fee-for-service, whereas 2013 and 2016 are still in mainstream support with free support.

http://winsupersite.com/microsoft/understanding-basics-microsoft-s-mainstream-vs-extended-support

That explains the different support categories. 

As far as the software goes, Office 2016 performs better, in my opinion, than 2010, but 2010 was fine. In fact, 2003 was fine for much of what I did and still do, there are just better tools in new versions of the software.
I have yet to get used to Excel 2016, but one thing I have noticed is that some SharePoint 2016 functions (in this case it is reports) needs Excel 2016 to work.

I like Excel 2010 better though.
I prefer to use 2016 because I have a business and can write off the extra expense.  I develop some basic VBA functions to work with Excel.  Many of my clients use 2010 and none of my VBA functions have failed to work with their version.
I use excel 2013 at work. I use powerpivots all the time - it helped me create some really cool reports at work and answer business questions that just weren't being answered before due to reporting limitations. When I showed Excel 2010 users at work my reports, they really loved it but they weren't able to use all the features and kept running into issues. If you have a choice, I really don't see any reason to stick to a version of excel that is 6 years behind the current model. Just get the latest! There's a reason they created new versions - they are simply better and have way more cool features.
You can save the Excel 2010 help files and use them in later versions by using macros calling Application.OnKey to remap the [F1] key. I still use the Excel 9 (Office 2000) .CHM files and the ancient .HLP file for the Excel 4 macro functions.

There are 2 things lost moving on from Excel 2010: the ribbon UI becomes bigger, so there's more wasted space if you don't use touch; no more MDI, multiple windows in the same application window.
The one big downside I've seen with 2010 is not having multiple files open in multiple windows. That can be a real pain. And I think they refined the user interface for 2013 over 2010 (but maybe that's just because I'm more used to 2013)
I believe my corporation of 8,000 uses 2010 if that means anything or helps at all. 
Thanks. I was pretty much convinced when asking friends if they still use 2010 at work. I never used pivot or VB though. 2010 it is (which is 1 pound more expensive than the cheapest 2013 and 2016 I can find. Doesn't matter).
Ups, typo. Sorry. Thanks a lot for your opinion.
I know it is stupid to recommend 2016 because of just a couple of new features, but man, I feel naked without TEXTJOIN.
Good one! Thanks. 
To be honest, if I had the choice I would go all the way back just to get rid of the ribbon stuff. Oh well.. you can't have it all I suppose...
> none of my VBA functions have failed to work with their version

Make sure not to use AddChart2 and stick with the older AddChart :P (that's one of the main issues I've had with VBA backwards compatibility - any function that's a "[FunctionName]2")
Thanks for the info. Good to know.
I really like the bigger ribbon in 2013 - makes the features more salient in my opinion, easier to find and go to quickly
If 2016/2013 is cheaper, get that! It's worth getting because it's exactly the same - but with refinements.

For one thing, you can load two different Excels in two different windows AT THE SAME TIME! You can't do that in 2010!

You have to open a fresh instance of Excel.
While you can get it cheap, just remember microsoft stops supporting it soon.
Oh dear! Not good for a 13" screen then. I might be old-fahioned, but I can still run the really old office mainly with key combinations. Never been a fan of the ribbon as it involves too much clicking around :(
And I prefer the more compact ribbon in Excel 2010 for the few times I use it. On my PC, the ribbon is usually collapsed showing only the tabs. In that state, 2013 and 2016 waste many vertical pixels on additional gaps between ribbon and worksheet frame which are, for me, useless wastes of space.

Mostly subjective. The ideal would be providing more customization options, but MSFT no longer sees user customization as a useful features.
True, not being able to use two excel windows is a majoy annoyance. I did find 2010 cheaper now and bought it. As long as companies still use 2010 I'm fine, and for that price I don't mind buying a newer version sometime in the future. Glad I have a version that I know and kind of understand.
Just open a separate excel  from the start menu and multiple windows you shall have 
you can use 2010 on 2 different windows - though you cant c&p between the 2 (i think).
When you have one window open, just goto the .exe or find excel in the start menu and open it. 
unless you mean that 2013+ have a native ability to be in 2 windows at a time.
That's fair. I have a spare (bigger) monitor to plug my laptop into so the screen size isn't such a big issue
This is my problem with Excel 2010 exactly! I regularly have to take inputs from multiple people and combine them into one excel sheet. I can't just open one one each monitor and copy from one to another is immensely frustrating. I know I can create a session of excel across both monitors and then create windows inside Excel for each workbook. It is just clunky! 
Unfortunately /u/epicmindwarp is wrong on the two windows part - I do that all the time.

Aside from PowerPivot, the main reason I'm trying to get my company to upgrade Office for me from 2010 to 2016 is the pivot tables have better improvements (like unique count, etc).

Also, if your company plans on moving to OneDrive or Office365, 2016 is a no brainer.
They don't play nicely with each other, though--you can't easily jump between workbooks to create references to ranges in the other book. Copying and pasting between instances is also pretty messed up.

2013's approach properly fixed that, *but* annoyingly you can't easily close your final own workbook without exiting the program. (You *can* do it with ctrl+F4, but that's it, and it has weird effects sometimes.)
Keep reading the thread, already covered all that. 
I don't even have a desk, thus for me it's balancing my laptop on my lap on the sofa. 
Ahh, I just right click the excel icon that's on my task bar and open another instance of excel...
Cheers for the info. Actually, this is only for my own computer but I would like to use the functionality for work eventually. I only chose Professional over Home because of Access - and because it wasn't more expensive. 
>unique count

OMFG it's about time! It's always blown my mind that Excel, a product they've been developing for decades, doesn't have unique count. Thank fucking god.

Can you do it as a formula too?

Wrong on two windows? Which part? I'm literally doing as I stated right now.

Edit: For the love of God people, keep reading before telling me you can do it via a fresh Excel, that isn't my point. I've already covered all that. 
You have to open excel a certain way to open more then one window of it, which becomes a PIA
> For one thing, you can load two different Excels in two different windows AT THE SAME TIME! You can't do that in 2010!

I'm using 2010 and can have as many Excel windows open as I want. Working in data, I frequently have different excel files open on each monitor.
You have to open the new excel by right clicking then telling it open in new window.  From there you tell it file -> open then open your excel file.

It's a PIA to do when you start having to open multiple files
Are your Excel windows connected to each other? Can you VLOOKUP from one to the other?

This is the problem here, you can load Excel in fresh instances, but you can't interact with each other. 
Keep reading the thread, already covered all this. 
Thank you, I was confused on this as well.


I've aways had two separate sheets in separate windows on 2010 at work, never considered the possibility to link them together and edit both!
Fair enough, I didn't know about that. However, that is very specific and different from claiming that 2010 can't have two different windows at the same time :P

EDIT: dammit, another reason now that I want 2016...
> You have to open a fresh instance of Excel.

I did qualify that statement!
