From PDF table to Excel Sheet
Not an Excel answer per say, but you may have to consider a third party utility.

Hope it's not against rules to mention other products, but I've good experience so far with an online tool called DocParser. Does a good job when copy/paste doesn't work.
I do this every day and use a bit of software called PDF2XL. It's not free, but my business would be impossible without it.
Highlight want you want to copy and then Copy > Paste into Excel.  There's no other way to do it.

If formatting is funny then right click in excel and try the different paste options to see if something works better.
Also, if you have a newer version of acrobat (adobe) you can convert the PDF file to an excel file. It can get messy here if text is not completely clear though.
If the pdf is of a scanned document or there is no selectable text, then you don't have any options that I know of. If the data was originally laid out in such a way that you can select the table in the pdf, you usually can just copy and paste it directly. Sometimes it will come across as a long column of text in excel. In that case, I use tools such as smallpdf.com to convert it.
You can also try to take the pdf's screenshot or the PDF printed to a OneNote notebook and use its Image to Text conversion. I have used it and the Image to Text from OneNote is pretty good. 

But, the column separator might come as an L (small) or a pipe symbol ( | ). 

:)


Well if the data is just numbers with no space, you could copy into MS Word first then convert into a table separated by spaces. Then copy into Excel
I use Adobe Acrobat Pro DC, not free but worked so far.
If the data is mostly single words/numbers then you can have good luck just copying and pasting to excel and then using text-to-columns with space as your delimiter.
Www.smallpdf.com
Nuance has a pretty strong suite. Student version is only $110 for a perpetual license.  
Go to ilovepdf see there. 
Which version of adobe are you using? 
Able2extract. 

Hi!

You have not responded in the last 24 hours.

**If your question has been answered, please change the flair to "solved" to 
keep the sub tidy!**

Please reply to the most helpful with the words **Solution Verified** to do so!

See side-bar for more details.   If no response from you is given within the next 5 days, this post will be marked as abandoned. 

*I am a bot, please message /r/excel mods if you have any questions.*

There's also [Datawatch Monarch](http://www.datawatch.com/resource-center/videos/how-to-quickly-convert-a-pdf-to-excel/). If you have say, a bunch of monthly reports, you'd first define what fields to extract - this is saved as a model. You'd then be able to apply that model to all your reports and export all the extracted data to Excel.
I have used this at a previous job and it works great
Thanks for this! Worked great!
I often lose the table formatting when I try to paste it directly into Excel. Something that sometimes still work, is to paste it into Word, and copy it again before pasting it into Excel.
Sometimes if you "print to pdf" before it works better too.  I have no idea why.
You can also play around with text to column to get it cleaned up

What has helped in the past is converting the pdf to word and then copying the table over into excel from the word doc
> Www.smallpdf.com

That's actually pretty good, or was on the test PDFs I just threw its way.  
"only"
Welcome.  The new version seems to crash occasionally, but it's still completely indispensable to me!
Welcome.  The new version seems to crash occasionally, but it's still completely indispensable to me!
