Excel freezing multiple times a day, becoming either a static screen or all menus etc. disappearing
Intel graphics? - disable hardware acceleration from the advanced portion of the excel menu. also rotating your screen (ctrl + alt +left ) or force reffreshing the display driver will fix it.
Could be related to this

https://www.reddit.com/r/excel/comments/5bjjld/anyone_ever_have_excel_program_partially_freeze/
\* Apologies, error in the title. The menus don't disappear - it's everything *but* the menus disappearing (as per the screenshot)
I have the same issue periodically, and it is not a resource issue. I'll try to grab a screenshot of my task manager next time it happens. I'd be curious to see if your issue is resolved by watching out for other resource heavy software.

 I'm working on Excel 2016 32 bit on Windows 10. 
Is it ONLY Excel? How about the other programs?

Because the first thing I'm suspecting is you got hit by malware.
I was having the same problem as well, and rotating the screen has solved the problem! Thank you so much!
VERY interesting thought there. Yes, Intel Graphics (XPS 13 laptop) and when I just clicked to disable hardware acceleration it had the error for a split second and then stopped. I'll report back to see if it happens again. Thanks so much. 
It's greyed out but ticked for me. What does this mean?
Graphic issue has somehow caused lots of excel problem in my work place (but first place goes to 15MB+ excel file). Usually disable acceleration fixes it but I have a case that I have to disable intel's driver complete and use windows' VGA driver instead.
Just to follow up - this was the solution!! I'm incredibly grateful for you taking the time to answer. This has already saved me (and my colleagues) a huge amount of frustration. 

Thank you, thank you, thank you! 
This sounds exactly like the problem I'm facing! That makes sense that it's Chrome eating up all the resources and causing Excel to break (and actually sounds obvious now that I think about it!)

Thanks so much! 
Yes, it's just Excel. According to the thread linked above, it might just be Chrome being a resource hog and causing Excel to break. Thank you for the suggestion though. 
I would guess its.set for you by group policy speak to your it admins
Happy to help, we had the same problem but happened to get a display driver has stopped responding message when also using our webex client which led us down the right path luckily
