Are there jobs where you can make $100-125K mainly just working in Excel?
Yes if you supplement excel with knowledge of an OLAP related software.   For example,  a hyperion business administrator or SAP guru spot will use excel a ton.  Also Sr Financial analyst roles in some markets will pay in the hundred K ballpark.   Finance managers live in excel and will make in that range.  The biggest limiting factor I think you have on the dollars is the experience.   120k with 5 years will be a stretch outside an investment bank I'd think. 7-8 years would be more likely if you've quickly progressed through the ranks at one or more companies.   Best of luck!

Edit: Learn macros.  Not really a guru if excel isn't doing most of the heavy lifting for you.   Most high dollar excel folks I know are macro gods. 
Ha. My accounting professor tried to do this after he was retired from teaching full time. He found a job at a casino that was all Excel all day and was super excited and then after the interview they called him about being the CFO. He was like NO NO! I JUST WANT TO PLAY IN EXCEL ALL DAY! Maybe try a casino? Ha. 
My company has project analysts that mainly manipulate data but I don't think they approach that. I'm pretty sure they have to know SQL, and probably Access, and any other programs along those lines and some coding languages. 
[deleted]
I work in ecommerce. And you can def. make a solid living as a guy making custom excel reports and structuring data. Our guy on this makes around 80K i guess. 
FP&A, if you have some basic budgeting skills is basically all Excel all the time and the pay is substantial.
There's definitely modelers/financial analysts making 100k spending almost all their time in excel, but they want you on conference calls and possibly familiar with R, SQL, Python.

I spend about 70% my time in excel but am not yet at the 100k... someday.
Category. Management.
Jesus Christ, Americans :(

You earn so much. Lucky bastards.
Yeah, this is a pretty standard rate for planners in Silicon Valley.  Mostly excel work, no VBA.  Have to have the rest of the business analyst package tho, great communication and team building to sell your analysis.  
Not my job, but my manager's. I am a Financial Analyst for a government defense contractor. My managers, one a Program Business Manager and the other a Program Finance Manager (essentially the exact same role), use Excel for 80-95% of their day. The rest of the time is spent in Access or other database systems. I'm sure they make well into the six figure range. As a first year Analyst I work maybe 5-10 hours out of the 40 hours I'm there each week and make $55k using Excel 90% of the time.
Stupid question, but what does COL mean?
[deleted]
Yes - obviously CoL is a huge factor here. Depends on *why* you prefer Excel, but you mentioned other BI tools, so I think you're headed in the right direction.

I currently work in the BI industry as a consultant directly for the software vendor, and in a similar role, or (even better) as an in-house expert for someone, that's definitely feasible. You'll make even more if you live in an area with high cost of living, but that's probably a fairly standard salary after several years of regular experience.

If going with the latter option, your day-to-day is likely to be a combination of data visualization, ETL, and some SQL sprinkled in, but it really depends on how specialized you can get. No serious degree requirements generally, if you have a bit of relevant work experience, and this position is in high demand.

I can also speak for tax consulting for the Big 4, but you'd need expertise in tax, which you didn't really indicate. 
Yes, there are a number of people at my work who make that type of money and don't have anyone that report directly to them. If you count managers who have people under them then there are a ton of people. 

I work in finance / defense industry in a relatively low COL area. The positions would mostly be the forecasting/reporting guys. The standard financial analysts who do 75-90% of their work in excel all make 40-85k. There's nothing particularly difficult about what I do, you just need a good grasp of how everything works which makes entering the industry difficult, but easy once you're in. 
investment banking
I work as a financial analyst.

I'm entry-level, so I'm making "only" 50k/year. The average for a financial analyst is 71k/year. For a senior financial analyst, it's 92k/year.

The only time I don't use excel is    
 1) when I'm pulling data out of our accounting system (so 3 minutes of selecting the data to pull),  
 2) when I'm looking up how to make excel do things,  
 3) when I'm presenting what I've done in excel to others.   

very good insight here thanks!
I have a few years experience with Hyperion and writing scripts with the sap api.  Can you point me to some job postings? I've briefly looked but haven't found much.  I'm mostly interested in comparing the salary range to my own.
[deleted]
That MS in CS is a huge piece though. And the toughest hurdle.
very cool. any idea what his title and level are?
Hey man, I just graduated with a degree in E-business. I'm currently working as a business analyst in the medical field. I was wondering if you had any tips or recommendations on what I should be focusing on learning in order to break into the ecommerce field?
Can agree as an FP&A manager though expect long hours and stress for that kind of money.
My wife works in category management in the booze biz and makes almost 100k  with basic Excel skills. It makes me sick, because I develop data analysis and automation programs with VBA and don't make nearly that much.
First off, yea we kinda do but the numbers here are not take home. At the 100k level you'll lose 35ish% to the government and then maybe another 15-20% to health care coverage. So you're going to to take home about half of the declared pay, and if you have student loans, well there goes another 600-800 a month. 
Cost of living
Not bad! How many years?
For that type of basic job search,  the go-tos like monster/ladders/etc are a good place to start if your just looking to compare.    Indeed also works.   I'm blanking now but there is an IT specific job board like that also.   Search for business administrators or similar positions.   Placement firms can also helpful.   Just speak to their recruiters that work in the IT space.   These are also great contacts when you start your search in earnest.   Sorry for the delay!
Maybe you're on your way to being the CFO! :) 
I've replied elsewhere, but I agree with /u/I_Too_Read_Reddit as far as good skills to have. I think that's a very reasonable salary expectation for that skillset even without the MS in CS, provided you have a couple years experience. If not, knock off 20k or so, and either expect to reach it within a couple years at that company or someone else will hire you away for more.
His title is business analytic specialist. He actually started in our warehouse and worked his way after he immigrated from war in the middle east, and he have no education. His main work is to keep every report up and running. Creating new ones that people want, and extract data from our CRM to create these files. 
You still probably have twice purchasing power, or more =)
not if you work for a healthcare company like i do.. i make 118k and they pay me a stipend to carry their insurance. and i get a traditional pension. 

oh, and no college degree. 😁 
If you're paying 800 a month for student loans and are making less than 100k a year you did something wrong
6 years so not bad at all. Started at 50k my first year and have gotten 2 promotions since then.
That's what happens when 350MM people speak the same language and bomb the shit out of Europe in WWII.
Yeah, the same language: $$.
