Finding a data entry job ?
Excel skills are necessary but not sufficient for success in jobs where Excel skills are valued. 

In other words, if you don't have Excel skills, look elsewhere. If you have Excel skills, congratulations, but this is not a guarantee of success. 

I assert being an expert in Excel breaks down into these weighted skill categories:

* 40%: Understanding data types and data structures, entity modeling, relationships, cardinality
* 30%: Understanding canonical Excel methods (techniques)
* 20%: Understanding Excel formulas, including knowledge of industry-specific formulas
* 10%: Understanding all the rest Excel has to offer: formatting, charting, automation, and special Excel tools

What should you `feel extremely comfortable with`? I argue you need to feel *extremely comfortable* with data types, data structures, and canonical Excel methods. Unfortunately, these are not the things people usually teach. People usually teach formulas, and prettiness, because that's what most noobs ask for ("I have a data that looks like *x* and I need to get to *y*"). Often, this is coming at the problem backwards: Many Excel noobs have problems figuring out the solution to the 20% part because they have not learned the 40% and 30% parts yet. 

How does one learn the heavy-weight 70% parts? Experience. That, and real business problems are not a bad place to start, as long as you have the latitude to spend the time it takes to dissect the underlying problems. These are the parts that cannot be Googled easily, are difficult to ask coherent questions about, and frankly, go over the heads of many mortals. Read articles on entity-relationship modeling, and database normalization. The little secret too few have discovered about Excel is this: *to be an effective developer for a moderately complex Excel application, you actually have to know this stuff.*

Anyone can tell you 'get familiar with xyz functions!', but this only provides you with lip gloss to put on the pig, unless you have put in the effort to understand how and when to apply those functions. Anyone can Google how to use formula xyz. 

Finally, by no means should you focus on one skill at a time. Immerse yourself in real problems, or invent one for yourself. Pick it apart. Try to understand what is being modeled. Solve the business problem, or solve it in a new way. Look to this sub for examples, but try to see how many times people are doing it wrong: Starting with the 10% or 20% categories is going at it backwards. 

I will end my rant now... I hope you found something of value here. 
Excel is a program that is best learned over many years and with different responsibilities. As a beginner, I'd recommend you look for any entry level office job, and see how you can use Excel to make your life/job better. My job, HVAC designer, has nothing to do with Excel necessarily, but I found ways to incorporate it to improve my value. I have been able to use that improved value (plus the confidence it brings) to get to the point where I'm doing a job I love for great pay. Getting your foot in the door (somewhere - anywhere) is probably the hardest step in setting up your future. Being great at Excel is not what employers are looking for - it is a secondary skill.
If you want a job using excel that pays well, I'd recommend learning to use both excel's financial functions and VBA.  That way you can try to get a job as a financial analyst which, at an entry level, will usually pay somewhere around $55-60k.
You don't need to know much at all about Excel to enter data into it. I'd say 10-15 an hour depending on what industry you're in. 

If you're thinking about a Data Analyst, you should be very good in Excel and comfortable with VBA. I think analysts salaries can range from 30-60k a year. I had a short gig between semesters as a Data Analyst and I was making 20 per hour; I think that nets something like 40k a year.

Data entry and data analysis are two completely different things though.

Changed to discussion ;)
I've had every office admin job I've ever had use Excel in some form or fashion. Even if your job doesn't exclusively use Excel, if you become a super user and your co-workers find out the office will soon know. Excel gurus are office gold. 

Entry level you could try things in office administration, it's data entry most of the time and gives you a good chance to use and grow your knowledge. 
I knew very little about Excel before I started an entry-level job several years ago. I didn't know much beyond what they teach you in the most basic Intro to Microsoft Office computer science class in college. 

Now, I'm far from being an Excel expert, but I learned so much more about it through the job because it was a tool we used everyday. I think the most important thing to note though is that on the job posting, they only asked for basic Excel knowledge because they were going to teach applicants to use Excel the way they did to accomplish the specific tasks they needed to accomplish. 

This helped me qualify for another job where they asked for someone with intermediate Excel skills. In this new job, they wanted to make sure I could work my way around a spreadsheet and pivot tables etc, but they were more interested in other skills that I could bring to the table and would have been able to teach me the Excel skills I needed. 

Basically, for both of these jobs, knowing Excel would have been a bonus for the companies doing the hiring, because at the end of the day, they really just wanted someone who was comfortable with and capable of learning to use Excel everyday in the way they used it to achieve their specific tasks. 

I would like to note that these two jobs were in drastically different fields (one was ecommerce merchandising and the other was consumer packaged goods industry) but both postings had the words "data analysis" in the descriptions, if that helps. 

TLDR: In an entry-level position, they'll likely teach you everything you need to know about Excel to do the job they're asking you to do, so any prior Excel experience is mostly a bonus and not a requisite. 
I did. Although I took it more of valuable words then a rant.

I appreciate you taking your time to write that.
In your opinion, is there a job where Excel would be used for the main part of the job ?
I would really love to find a job that pays well using Excel.

Can these be self taught or do I actually need to go to school to learn these ?

Roughly how long from a someone just beginning to learn this too ?
Thank you much!
Awesome! Thanks for this !
For further ~~ranting~~ reading, here's a [link](https://www.reddit.com/r/excel/comments/3x0odl/would_like_to_collect_data_points_over_time_as_i/cy0jry9/) to a previous post. It's a bit technical as it focuses on those '70%' items I talked about here. 


Excel teacher???

I mean - people say it's a tool, but it's more like a tool belt. There are tons of jobs where it is very valuable, but it's easier to teach those people Excel than it is to teach an Excel user those skills.

That isn't to say that an expert Excel user isn't valuable at most any job, just that most any job won't know how to use an expert Excel user. And the Excel user won't know how they can make things better. Since you are just starting out in Excel anyway, I'd recommend just getting any office job (I know how daunting and impossible that is). I've never seen anyone hired based on their knowledge of Excel alone.
I used Excel at my previous job like 75% of the time.  I honestly wasn't crazy about it.  My experience was that companies that make you rely on Excel so heavily are companies that haven't had the time to create more effective tools for their employees, it was disorganized.  Having said that, it did let me find a job that payed MUCH better so I would have to rate the overall experience as positive.  At my next job though it was a larger company that did have tools developed so now I use Excel...like 5% of the time.   I guess my point is...the jobs are out there.  They aren't always great jobs but they can lead to better things.  My old job didn't require a degree...but it really didn't pay well either ($17 an hour).  This one does require a degree ($27 an hour).
accountant/auditor
I don't think there are really a lot of good paying jobs that you can get just using excel.  There are a lot of jobs that you have to have a skill in something else, and knowledge of excel can help separate you from other candidates.  

I work as an accountant, and I think my knowledge of excel helps me everyday, but without an accounting degree is going to be required.

There are of course lots of other jobs, and almost every desk job will use some excel.  Even a receptionist, or data entry like you said will help you, but I don't think excel skills alone will get you those jobs.

That said there are a lot of useful skills excel can do, and I recommend you learn.  Where do you stand now?  

Here is some good reading material.  

https://www.reddit.com/r/excel/comments/2e28s3/rexcel_advice_thread_repository/

There are some functions you should learn such as sumif, index/match, vlookup, countif.  Those are the ones I use the most.  If you want to separate yourself, learning VBA is the way to go.  Even one day spent learning the macro record function can be very very useful for a lot of jobs.  
Oh, and the most basic skills to have to show off to employers: sum, formatting, FORMULAS (if, vlookup, concatenate). If you're in he states and go to a staffing agency for an office job typically they will give you an online test to rate your skills. That could be a good indication for you how your skills are progressing. Best of luck :)
Thank you. I do appreciate your response.

Next other question, would there be something I can self learn without having to go to school for to go with Excel to make myself valuable ? Is there such a skill ?

Sorry, just trying to pick your brain.
My old job was basically data entry. 
Well, I'm coming out of a job paying 10/HR, and I'm doing my best to learn these things to able to get paid more :/
Yeah, one of the best things about excel is it lets you create your own tools for your situation but that means you're not being provided with the tools.
I appreciate this knowledge, thank you!

Right now I've learned about using math with dates and times. (I know that January 1st, 1900 is day 1). 

I still am learning absolute cell reference(probably has a different name).

I've learned SUM and PRODUCT, and I know the basic controls to put in the equations for what I will need to do. I know the some of the TRUE or FALSE statements.

I've done a couple of pivot tables, but I would still say I'm very novice to it.
Great! Very good to know 
No worries :)

I took a couple years of college, but ultimately found that it wasn't for me - that's why I initially answered this question. Without a degree (but with a bunch of drive) I found a janitorial job at an Architectural firm - I kid you not. I was good with computers, so kept asking for more responsibilities. They gave me some drafting jobs (CAD). I was a bit slow to pick that up, but was able to revamp some of their workload using Excel. That lead to a full time job. Spent 10 years learning that job (and learning how to better use Excel) and switched jobs to an incredible job that I'm at now. Excel didn't get me the job, but helped me keep it.

Sorry to ramble, but I rarely get the opportunity and you are listening, so I took it.

As far as non-Excel related skills - I know that drafting/modeling is always in demand. The problem there is that most employers do not want someone fresh out of school (or with no experience). You can fake this with a good portfolio. Instead of Excel - I'd personally recommend getting good with some drafting software - learn AutoCAD, but only a bit... learn Revit a lot, and mix in some of the other 3D drafting platforms that your market is looking for. Build a portfolio - even if it means just recreating your house, etc...

Good luck!
That is truly inspiring. Holy crap that is just awesome. I hope I can come across a company that will do that for me.

Alright, I will definitely try to get in learning some of those programs too!

I seriously appreciate you taking the time to mention these programs to me.
