What do you do in Excel at your job?
Financial Analyst.

Everything from calculating cash flows for fixed income securities, through to controlling other applications via VBA (such as trading applications and Internet Explorer forms for reporting) in order to automate processes based on a few simple inputs e.g. "BUY X Stock at Y price in Z Quantity"
Supply chain analyst for a company which produces food additives

1. create reports for higher management
2. create spreadsheets/macros for any team in the company to help simplify anything they do
3. manage stock levels in our warehouse which involves forecasting sales 
4. Goto "IT guy" to help with general issues
5. Ad-hoc analysis of any other data 
Accounting.  I use some very light VBA programs to automate tasks.  Mainly just putting data into excel to get some more information.  Sumif is one of the functions I end up using the most.

Also a lot of work with CSV files to get data between programs.
Director of regulatory reporting and actuarial data support teams.

I don't get into the weeds as much as I used to, but the themes for reporting are 

* data acquisition
* data rationalization
* analysis
* reconciliation
* automation

As a department leader, I get to do stuff like budget planning, project CBAs, and generally organizing bits of data to make them useful.
Laser Operator that engraves rubber stamps. I use it to keep track of run times for the multiple machines, a page counter production batches, and a separate one  that counts image files in directories so I know how many woodblocks for each size woodblock I will need to engrave. Also I gather a few statistics with those sheets for our business. That is not really my job but I have the information anyways so I figured why not. 
Make other people have to do less work by hand. I'm a spoonfeeder that works for hours to make it so you can just paste data into the helper sheet and everything you want magically appears. 

And it isn't even close to being in my job description. I just like learning and am bad at saying no. 
Accountant, honestly feels like I just I copy and paste financial data all day. I build a lot of the reconciliations and journal entries to make them idiots proof for new hires. 
I work in advertising - specifically paid search (SEM). We use excel to aggregate keyword level performance data and analyze it via pivot tables. Also use excel to create graphs for reports. 

Excel is also the most widely accepted format to interface with ad platforms like google adwords or Facebook.
Real Estate Developer.  

I honestly use it for everything, however I don't use it that much as I have a finance team and analysis team that supports me.  My use is because I like using it, and can make clean professional deliverables quickly.  

But there comes a point where you should no longer be in excel.
I am over a wastewater treatment facility and we use excel spreadsheets to calculate wasting rates, food/microorganism ratios, etc... We also use it to prepare bench sheets and monthly records.
I'm in Healthcare Quality.

I analyze large and small amounts of data to spot patterns or trends and to generate reports. I use Excel approximately 6-7 hours per day. 
Accountant
- Budgets for all 17 offices rolling up into 4 regions rolling into the national budget, with variance analysis from actual results
- Reports created monthly for regional managers showing their profit and loss statements with an extract of their ledger for their region to allow accruals and corrections that are kept on record
- Extract of ledger for analysis by the CEO
- Heatmaps to show regional variations in budgets
- The best use is what I call the "big report" this has all ledgers for the last 3 years in 3 sheets, every bank transaction for last 3 years line by line for 30 bank accounts in 1 sheet, currently 30000 lines, an extract of the database we use with relevant portions I require analysed in a pivot table, a contact list of all branches, regions and offices, an investment schedule, a time sheet for tasks that need times recorded, all of our accounting codes and a database of things like office information and bank account numbers and codes for doing lookups. This allows me to find any transaction for the last 3 years in the bank account, ledger and database simultaneously with a workbook search.
I haven't seen this response yet. I'm an institutional researcher in higher education. 

I calculate a lot of descriptive statistics about our enrollment; I report survey results; generate staffing and workload information; and teach an excel workshop. A lot of what I use centers on vlookup, pivot table, etc. 

Then of course I have a few one-off ad hoc reports that might use more advanced research techniques. 
Nothing... everything... 


Currently I work in the 'business intellegence' space. I find it much easier to export raw data to excel for analysis than to write code to do the analysis I want. That kinda runs the gammit. 


I graduated to programming by starting in excel so maybe that has something to do with it. 
I'm a product engineer. I've designed excel files to track productivity, monitor causes of production problems, and even track current project status. I've made some pretty cool product configurators. I've made some projects to automate simple tasks. I made an accounting sheet for my father-in-law to automate a couple hours of work into a couple minutes.
Test engineer.

I record when and how and what was tested and some of the test results. Test data is separate but I use spreadsheets to keep track of the history of testing. I also make pivot tables to summarize and report this to managers. 

I also throw test data into excel and graph it real fast to quickly look for data that would indicate a failure during testing. 
I work in the Benefits Build area of a small health insurance company. I use Excel to manage plan/group data and timelines, analyze and validate plan data, make tools to customize benefit plans and export plan documents to Word merge files, and automate creation of large document batches.
I teach business and accounting. I use excel to summarize grades, but also teach financial modeling. 
Mechanical calculation - Engineering 
I use excel for like 90% of my work time to do calculations or to perform post-processing of FEA results (ansys). I have some really complex and massive xls full of calculations, linked cells with also a lot of logic composition (because we usually want to create generic tools). I also code in vba to create automatic actions, the most complex was to call an external .exe to perform a calculation with certain input (with a specific format) put into txt file, that software gave a txt output file to post process, etc. Everything in 1-click action. So we save like 30mins each time. 
Petroleum Engineering 
I mainly enter in data from economic programs to populate a table for our memos. I also frequently use it to calculate financial information such as price per unit, expenses and net income among a lot of other things. 
Manage warehouse inventory.

Build customer price books

Mostly asset tracking, and form management. Because of the asset tracking, it's slowly turning into an in-house development project to replace the third-party platforms that Excel would be used to upload data into.
Review sets of accounting data for compliance purposes. Macros to clean up data and pivot tables to get a sense of whats important and make pull lists.  Auditor.  
Sales

Wet get paid straight commission, so I have a spreadsheet to calculate my pay. I included my gross sales, costs, profit dollars, and have it calculate margin and what I'm paid. I also have it comparing that to my goal for the month. 

A sheet for our cost on some things we special order. Mostly so I can have a sheet to show customers what they're paying. 
Civil engineering intern. A lot of material tracking, those are simple. I also handle input of all the field crews time, which I use an excel sheet to check and help me catch mistakes before it's sent to payroll. Also newest use is a visual schedule essentially. Gives a quick glance of where the job is and projects the time left to complete. 
I was an accountant, but I'm a software developer in vba now. 

Lots of reporting, reconciliation and process automation
occasionally make graphs and do analysis, mostly because I can do things really fast in excel that I would fumble about doing in sql, and are one off tasks so I don't script them out or try and do them in something like python or java
Transmission protection maintenance. (I test relays) I use excel to record test results...
Metrologist (Guy who measures things) - our company does dimensional inspection for other companies so they see if the parts they made were in tolerance. We use excel to make our reports with all of our measurements. 

Sometimes when we get hundreds of parts and we have our cnc measurement machines spit out excel sheets for each part. We then copy the data into our excel report template and have it populate the report. 
Data analysis for the most part, do a bit of resource modelling at times as well. Analyst for a telco
Analyst for an insurance company. I'm in the provider network area, so we do provider directory transmissions to and from external clients, data cleaning and manipulation, network disruption analysis, recruit productivity and status dashboards, etc. I also do a lot in Access.
I calculate test results. I work in a water testing lab.
Strength and conditioning coach
All of my training programs come through excel. 

percentages of their maxes
Created a body fat % for males and females
Chart basic information such as goals, results, height, weight, etc


Sat through a clinic where a strength coach sets up series of exercises in another tab and can have it auto fill on the workout sheet by just typing in something like leg day 1 or something. I have to look in my notes to figure out what he is using. I quickly forgot most of that info and never put it to use. I would still love to though, I just need to find the time and know exactly what I want to do so I can do all that work on the front end.  I just don't know how I want it to work for me. 
Eh, nothing that special. I manage a handful of e-commerce sites. I mostly use it to update, add new products, and keep quick books synced up
Rainfall and flow data. I'm a water engineer/hydrologist. We look at rainfall and flow data stats as well and run our own models and look at the results. I use excel to create a lot of the inputs for our hydrologic and hydraulic models. Most of our plots and results are presented in excel as well. 
Financial analyst as well for a small-mid size privately held company.

We do most of our cost accounting, all of our reporting and even have a custom Jet add-in that interfaces with our ERP system which is pretty handy.
Web apps. 

Formulas that build web apps. This is more of a project to make it possible to build software with spreadsheet formulas. It is open source and builds on ethercalc E.g. http://sheet.cellmaster.com.au/carbonoffset/appeditor
Download reports from our database, sort them and look at numbers.  Also use it to set up schedules.  Long story short, I do not use it nearly as much as I should, or at least not to it full potential...
I was hired for HR, but my day consists of a mix of tech support for our onboarding/payroll systems, herding cats to make sure all 200+ managers are doing things the right way, spreadsheets, and a little HR thrown in. 

Spreadsheets are mostly to do with KPI reports and tracking them over time for each retail location, area, and region. I've streamlined a lot from when I took over from my predecessor, and made a lot of things more flexible rather than hard-coded. 

I also put together a big dashboard-esque tracker so my boss can pick a location, area supervisor, or regional supervisor, and see their trailing 12 months of data (starting from a month of your choosing) across 10ish KPIs. Each KPI is ranked if it's "Good", "Needs Improvement", or "Bad", and the cells in the table are conditionally formatted to be color coded. It also counts up how many Good cells there are, how many Bad, etc. Then I added rankings, so you can see which location has the most Good indicators, and how each location ranks on that list, as well as which location has the most Bad indicators and where each location ranks compared to *that*. This is also available for the area & regional supervisors. And there are pie charts and sparklines and stuff. I keep coming up with ideas to add to it, or my boss has suggested things, so him and the directors are really impressed with it. I haven't told them I basically did it for fun to see if I could. Getting the tables to build themselves dynamically with TTM data for any chosen month was a fun challenge :)

Then I just do a lot of other spreadsheet maintenance. The end of month stuff my boss does, I prep the spreadsheets for him, plus the daily sheets for the upcoming month. I have streamlined a lot of that so it's easier for him and for the people who are turning data in to him. I track turnover based on payroll reports, and upkeep the sheet where we store information about our locations for handy reference. One lady insists that she just "can't" figure out how to do a lookup so every few months I have to do a vlookup for her because apparently it's rocket surgery. 

tl;dr- I'm carving out my own little Excel space.
I'm an analyst on a strategy and operations team for a mid-sized tech company. The majority of my job entails data analysis in Excel, which I would split into 2 buckes: 1. reporting (i.e. creating reports for our leadership) or 2. ad-hoc analyses to either answer questions about our business (i.e. why did APJ have a bad Q2?) or help inform future decision making (i.e. how do we get accelerate the growth of new customers in the US?). I would say my work is pretty similar to a business analyst.
Counter Fraud Analyst at an insurance company.

Mostly case outcomes, incomes generated, also use it to comb data in smaller sets for potential trends.
Actuary... 

Models to do anything. Send mass emails (think daily reports where only the document and title of email change), price options, PV calculations, simple aesthetic charts to present to clients. 

For heavier duty stuff we may do some of the heavy lifting in access, Python, c++, but it always starts and ends with Excel.
Piping design engineer.  
I use Excel for basic flow and thermal calculations.
Big 4 auditor. 

We mostly use Excel to retest client data. This often means redoing whatever the accounting respondents in this thread said. 

However, I've recently been making use of my macro knowledge to automate high volume, repetitive work which should effectively replace our outsourcing folks.

It's very fun. 
BI developer/data analyst. I use it for just a couple things anymore.


1. Importing data into a table in the database to run a report on a large subset. Created an add-in that I can login to our EDW and import a table real quick. Probably could be done with PowerBI now, but I've used this thing for 6 years.


2. Covering lists into SQL IN clauses. Made a quick function to concatenate a list a separate with delimiters. I'd guess this is the first function I ever made and anyone who writes a lot of SQL probably has something similar.


3. Making pretty charts for presentations. I really want to start using R for this, but I'm not as good or fast with ggplot as I am with Excel. One day I'll put in the time it will take to get familiar and comfortable with it, but for now I only use it when the chart I want can't be made in Excel. 


4. Helping coworkers with lookups, countifs, scripting the odd data manipulation job in VBA,etc.
Security Analyst...

I mostly use Excel to reformat text with macros. 

Example I get email huge list of loaded links that look this: 

meow://malwaresite4u[.]com/dir/gibberish.pdf

After I run my macro that looks for junk formats and removes them and fix them I end up with just the domain name like this:

malwaresite4u.com

I use Text to columns a lot, SO I take this URL 

malwaresite4u.com/dir/subdir/gate/ls

And push everything after .com to the right and delete cause I dont need the full URL.

Recently been using Conditional formatting to compare to columns to each other for duplicate URLs. No need to waste time figure out if that URL has been imported into firewalls. 

I am sure I can automate and find other shortcuts with Excel, just a matter of time and figuring how to make Excel work better for me. I want to learn more about VBA, but time is not on my side. 
I'm a simple technical and travel assistant in a very international company and build mostly handy tools out of Excel for my department - hour tables, calendars, handy lists which need minimal input by the other users, overview of certain things happening and breaking it down into simply statistics with the help of conditional formatting to give it a nice look (like when deliveries were made, etc). I have a rather narrow knowledge of Excel, and learn by doing when I have the time. :) 
Payroll specialist: Keep track of contractors checks, deductions, assignments.
Financial analyst for a production facility, with a focus in cost accounting (I'm one of six on the cost accounting team). Use excel on the daily to track different types of production losses, product re-categorizations, and inputting actuals from our accounting software for memo-writing (describing whether cost elements and cost centers are at, under, or over plan, and why). I love Excel! Still just intermediate at it, but I'll take VBA classes at some point. 
Senior Financial Analyst (FP&A, F500).

1. Build reports and dashboards to support presentations and provide guidance to senior management 

2. Automate repetitive tasks 

3. FX & Hedge analysis 

4. Lots of interaction with Oracle HFM and adhoc PnL models.

Prior to this I used excel for risk management, analyzing manufacturing data, and make vs buy vs source internal but globally analyses.

Software Implementation Consultant. 

Data gets imported to our solution mostly through CSV so I spend a lot of time training clients on how to parse out values, clean up data and identify potential duplicates. I also pull a lot of engagement metrics to build a client scorecard each month in excel so we can feed that into tableau for visualization. 
Civil engineering technician. Calculation sheets, endless lists, tables, data analysis. A lot of stuff we already have excel sheets set up for but a lot need changing to help automate tasks. We also keep registers/logs of things like drawings in excel, should really be a database.

The problems mostly stem from people storing data SLIGHTLY different ways, for example, using /,-, or _ can cause a whole host of problems.
Production controller for a vrooooooom-pewpewpew company. I track inventory quantities, higher assemblies the parts belong to, and information about orders placed and received.  It is incredibly boring and every day my brain gets more squishy, but ironically thanks to this sub I will soon get promoted to a position where I won't get to use Excel any more. 
Accountant

Just about everything.  Payroll, profit analysis, our company budget, etc.  I went cross-eyed on Wednesday from starting at an excel sheet for 9 hours straight.  My eyes really hurt after that day for an hour or so. 
I use it to monitor sick time,  vacation,  etc...  

I do payroll /hr stuff basically 
Structural engineering. Design roofs for large buildings. 
Mostly refresh all.  Maybe 20 days a year will write something new.   Work in Manufacturing. 
Investment banking, debt capital markets. I build project finance models for infrastructure and real estate projects. 

These often get quite large and complex, they need to reflect all aspects of the transaction and the debt. Use a bit of VBA to run some copy paste and goal seek procedures to fix the amortization profiles of the debt and break some inherent circularities. 
Culinary Innovation at a food start up. Day to day, I use Excel to track our products through the development process, create dashboards for upper management, build out tools for COGs analysis.


I used to be a chef so this is all self taught and driven. My bosses are giving me more and more analytical tasks, and I'm hoping to expand that role farther.
Employee benefits consulting in actuarial and underwriting.

I build and manage a bunch of reports and create new ones too.
Been making alot of spreadsheets for construction takeoffs (work for a production home builder in purchasing). It all seems pretty basic so far, I was hired on with no prior experience in the industry and with no degree. Other guys do drop down menus and fancy stuff, but for now I've been doing well with my basic material cost spreadsheets and I even made a calculator (you put in gutter length and howany hangers, downspouts etc are need and it gives you the job estimate). 

Only been there 1 and a half weeks.
Market analyst for a commodities shop.

Anything from index matching/vlookup match to gather specific historic data and using that to forecast future commodity prices or identify trends, to just using excel to track contract performances.

Sending out notifications with excel is also handy, but a mindless task. 

A lot of the work is adhoc and one off analysis.
Modeling for health economics - that's what I do and use Excel for, but I'm pretty new to this and I'm still learning the necessary Excel and VBA stuff. Before, I worked with models prepared by others.  

Excel is used for multiple calculations and sometimes for simulations (which requires VBA loops). It also has to be flexible to include user's choices and inputs, so logical formulas, offsets etc. are common, as well as additional VBA code to hide things from the user based on the options they chose, create navigation, resetting the parameters etc.  
I don't necessarily drive the requests. I work for a large system with multiple facilities. Sometime a facility will request an analysis looking for trends, for example: blood transfusions, is one physician ordering more than most, etc.
You do not have to be clinical (but it helps). I am a nurse, but plenty of my co-workers are not clinical and they do just fine.

If you are looking for these types of positions, look for larger hospitals or systems with "Data Analyst" positions.
Elevator Consultant here.

To simplify calculations based in given parameters (Safety gear permitted slide, motor ratings, sub-mains ratings, door closing forces...) ,to produce charts for reports and to analyse call and maintenance data provided in csv format by contractors.
Found he middle office guy who maintains the blotter :)
Do you have a bachelors? This is exactly what I want to do but don't know exactly how to get to that point. I'm graduating in May with a bachelors in Financial Analysis. Was this your entry level job?
Same exactly, except for a retail store's HQ. 
This is what I'm currently going to school for. Supply chain and MIS. Am I making the right decision?
Same but add in S&OP ownership, production planning, and subtract IT guy stuff. 
Question: How much money should I negotiate for If I know Regex, Fuzzy logic, email automation, internet explorer automation, pivot tables, index match match, vlookup, etc?
P&C Actuary or L&H ?
Does your line of work require actuarial letters?  How did you get into your career?

A lot of my current work within an actuarial area involves consuming data, cleaning it up, and ensuring best data practices... but from my own experience, all that has really entailed is simply treating Excel like a database / IDE coding environment.  I'd love to gain more experience in an area where highly complicated tools and data processes are a lot more structured, defined, and documented, but I wonder if I'd find that in an actuarial department vs. an area which supports actuary.
What kinda stats?
Spoonfeeder, I like that. I want to add that to my imaginary business cards along with Cat Herder. 
My job has very very little to do with Excel but I use it quite a lot for exactly this - spend hours and hours so other people can do things quickly and easily. The people who most benefit have no idea. 
lol so what do you do for work then. What's your job title?
I'm actually looking to get into accounting because of the fact that it is boring lol
How did you get into this field if you don't mind me asking? And do people in your profession have assistants? That would work with excel? 
Which company? I would like to look into any and all employment opportunities.
This is the sort of work I would like to get into.. love this sort of stuff.

What sort of patterns do you look for and how do you determine these paterns/trends?




Why would you do this in Excel when there are software programs for this sort of stuff?
vlookups, pivot tables, etc aren't really that advanced, so what are the advanced techniques you use in research?
> I graduated to programming by starting in excel so maybe that has something to do with it.

Excel is not programming.


I'd love to pick your brain some day. I work in employee benefits as well, but I'm still fairly new to the industry.
high school, community college, university, consulting?
I'm about to graduate in Chemical Engineering this May. I was hoping to get into the petroleum field but with the downturn in oil prices I'd imagine it's pretty difficult. Is there anything you'd suggest, or should I look elsewhere until the market turns back?
Teach me your ways, I am an accountant who uses a ton of excel but not many macros. I basically do all three of those things, but not so much vba automation. I would love to learn to but not sure what resources most apply to my situation. Any advice would be greatly appreciated!
Interesting! I'm an insurance marketer at a brokerage, so I use Excel to compare benefits and build presentations for business owners and board members. I also use it to clean employee censuses I receive from the client, so I can hand them over to my carrier reps in a readable format.
Cool. I'm a systems analyst. Which ERP system do you use?
> One lady insists that she just "can't" figure out how to do a lookup so every few months I have to do a vlookup for her because apparently it's rocket surgery.


May I ask what this lady does and what is her title? I don't understand how people who can automate Excel are not kept onboard sometimes but the old lady in the corner is kept onboard. There were a bunch of recent college graduates like that who were stuffed out

Do you think a programmer who is good at VBA, and other computer coding languages, can easily transition into accounting? I want to work as an accountant, but I only know the basics. For instance, I only took two introductory accounting courses in college and went into Quantitative Economics. On my own time I studyied VBA, Python, SQL, HTML, JavaScript - using those languages as temp consultant analyst after college.
>  so I spend a lot of time training clients on how to 

Are you a temp? Curious about that 

That shouldn't cause problems. Can you PM me an example and I can see if I can be of help to you.
> vrooooooom-pewpewpew company.

vacuum cleaning company?

Weird, I used to be in excel all day everyday as a financial analyst. You really don't look at excel for the whole day? I mean, should I have been working less 
Haha I wish! 

I built it for them but I do more project work instead of actual operational work. 
Bachelors and a Masters and a vocational qualifaction.

I didn't do entry level, I started as a Performance Analyst as my technical proficiency spoke for itself and I had some finance knowledge, so just needed refinement
Same here, except I'm outsourced as a 1099 contractor for the same work at a, um, franchise system. People end up finding me when corp IT can't/won't/don't understand what they want them to do. 
Same, and then some, wholesale distributor.
I have an interview for an internship doing this at a Habitat for Humanity retail ReStore. So excited to have the opportunity. 
Yeah, you are making a great call, as long as you find it interesting.  I worked for the federal government as an economist but fell in love with supply chain and went to OSU to study and now in private industry and have worked at multiple companies and love it.   Changing all the time, very high demand for people with the technical skills.  Old guard of supply chain usually came up through plants or manufacturing engineers but now people who have more specialized KSAs are at the top and you will be highly valued.  
I will point you first to [this piece](https://www.reddit.com/r/excel/comments/5dpt9b/finding_a_data_entry_job/da6j2xb/), which I wrote a week ago. 

I can't give you a number. In addition to technical skills, subject-matter experience and level of responsibility are key factors. 

You listed a number of good technical skills there, and a lot of those would come in handy with the reporting themes I just listed. In fact, I am sure they would be appreciated by many employers! However, if you read my link, you will see that I put quite a lot of weight on data management concepts, as compared to data manipulation prowess. 

In no way am I trying to discourage you. Hopefully I am not presuming too much, but I am guessing you are early in your career and looking for a right fit in a good job with good pay. You have smarts and you have skills, but maybe you lack experience. That's a perfectly natural place to be, so sell your skills, get yourself a spot where you have abundant opportunities to prove yourself, and level up from there. 


P&C, Workers' comp to be specific. 
I fell into this job in a very unplanned way. I was doing support for the claims department when I guess word got around that I had a talent for data wrangling and a head for actuarial concepts. To make a long story short, a reorg happened and I found myself doing full-time data support for actuarial. Eventually I was promoted to manage the function. I have no letters, as you say, and I am not an actuary--my role (or one of them, anyway) is to make actuaries' jobs easier. 

As far as Excel-as-a-database, that definitely goes on, but we've put a lot of effort into moving heavy data lifting tasks into proper databases. Acquisition, consolidation, rationalization, and transformation are all pesky things that have to happen before an actuary can start doing actuarial work. It just so happens our IT department is a bit--erm--challenged right now (I've [written about that](https://www.reddit.com/r/excel/comments/5ambcc/marketing_project_management_systems/d9iug8s/) too), so it makes sense for us to departmentalize this function. I would not say this is an ideal arrangement, and it's not the same way at every company, but luckily for me it's the way we do things today. 
Just like average run times per page engraved. How many pages ran on each machine, how many pages total throughout the day/week. How many of each size eood block come through and get programmed. Stuff like that. 
Making graphs for wood block inventory. http://imgur.com/a/jVJKd
And rope pusher. 
Systems Administrator - - SharePoint Speciality
Carefull of what you wish for my friend. It's great for a few years, but 30+ years is a different story. 
Out of college I worked at a small boutique investment bank, then transitioned to commercial real estate.  The finance background, and my knowledge of excel is what got me in the industry.  Since then, I've worked at a variety of companies, from private equity firms, to REITs.  Now I'm working for a large company doing real estate development for them.  I do have an assistant, and they do work in rudimentary excel.  

Honestly, excel is something that is used in pretty much every discipline at a large company, so it really depends on the role and how much you can incorporate it into your daily tasks.  

I can tell you that knowing excel will almost always be a benefit, and at worst be neutral.  For me, I've had to step back from the analysis and excel and focus on the high level tasks, but I tend to dig into it when I have time.
I work for a small local municipality. There's a lot more to the job than using excel and you can't mind getting dirty. I enjoy it because it is a job that requires you to use both your mind and your hands.
I work for a health insurance company and we do work for Medicaid. Medicaid writes reimbursement policies that outline what services are to be paid and what limits apply. We review claims based on the policies and look for error trends. In other words, we look for claims that paid incorrectly based on the guidelines and we build edits to capture these claims and correct them.
We do use accounting software and an SQL database but this gives the ability to search in one place across the 3 platforms we use being the accounting software, the database and web based banking so the relationship between these can be seen instantly instead of 3 independent searches. It also saves time not having to open multiple programs or spreadsheets at once and also allows me to share data quickly by copying and pasting from it instead of doing extracts from the accounting software or database. Another advantage was when we were hacked by ransomware I was still 100% functional.
I didn't say they were advanced, just that that's what I use excel for. For the advanced stats I use SPSS.
Sure. But I think you'll find a number of people who went from Excel to automating Excel with VBA to learning other programming languages. That's what I did.

Made games in Excel using only cell formulas. Then made games in Excel using VBA. Then moved the data for said games into Access and learned SQL. (Sometimes you just need to know your average ROI on Baltic Ave with a hotel when other people roll doubles!) Then started working professionally on things that weren't games.
Excel is programming if you do vba
No shit dude; I didn't say it was.
I'd be down for that. What system is your company on? Ours is on Epic Tapestry.
University. I also teach accounting for CPA Canada 
If you're interested in going the Petroleum route I'd suggest joining SPE and start going to the meetings if there are any close to you. It's a good way to network and you'll be able to gauge what companies are hiring. There have been a lot of layoffs this past year so the market is flooded with qualified engineers at the moment but that doesn't mean you can't look into internship or various other positions. I'd recommend looking at almost any job in the oil industry if you want to become a Petroleum Engineer because there is a lot of information to gain from these positions. Just knowing the names of tools or systems and their functions can be incredibly helpful when you're trying to get a foot in the door. 
Microsoft dynamics NAV 2015
I love excel but I'm happy a lot of my colleagues are subject matter experts instead of excel geeks. 

A few times a week I help make their life easier in excel, every other day they make my life easier by being amazing at our ERP system, or HR systems, or procurement systems, legal & contractual, corporate business processes in general, knowing how to approach certain people or things, how to make a workshop "work", or being very knowledgeable accountants who can tell me what the right way to handle something is - doing it in excel is then usually straight forward :p

I have my head in excel most of the time, but often feel like I'm having to make/recommend a judgement call on something accountant'y or communication'y or legal'y. In getting better at that and making sure I do it right, even my most excel-challenged colleagues are usually amazing resources of knowledge and a great help.
On paper, she's marketing & communications. In reality, our owner is good friends with her dad (who is in the same business and used to work for us before starting his own company) so she's coasting. So it goes. ¯\\\_(ツ)_/¯
It really depends on where you want to work. 

My firm and I'm sure the other Big 4 firms value CPAs highly, especially for audit and tax. Now, we do have consulting and other more tech driven work ("risk assurance"). I'm actually looking to transition into a more tech driven role. 

Now, regarding regular accounting: if you can make journal entries and do financial analysis, I think you definitely can do the job (from experience, accounting isn't hard). The real hurdle is getting somebody to hire you for an accounting role if your resume is light on accounting courses. 

My advice is this: determine if the role you're looking at requires a CPA, if not I think you've got a good shot. If I'm being honest with you, the accountant / auditor of the future NEEDS to be more tech savvy. That's the direction I'm going. 

Good luck. 
Nah, full time. I work with about 60 clients (all universities, typically Academic Affairs or Institutional Research). I'm just their main point of contact for any question about our solution. 
I've already sorted a lot of issues but EVERYONE at the company likes to "present" data different ways, including but not limited to: merged cells, storing metres in "metres" and "millimetres" with millimetres as text strings with preceding zeroes, it makes quickly copying data a bit of a nightmare, for example it might be project-drawingtype-drawingnumber, someone else might use "_", another person might use three different cells to separate the data. It's almost never the same way, some might order it in a completely different order.

Yes, it's easy to manipulate, but there's always glitches. You'll find lookups that don't work and the usual reason is somewhere in 100000s of lines of data someones concatenated a formula and merged a cell.

It's not necessarily a problem - anyone can manipulate the data how they want it, but the fact I have to manipulate it almost every single time is annoying, and getting your own way is difficult, even if me (a tech) finds a better way of doing something or automating, engineers (senior, chartered) don't like to change things too much.

Data following the same presentation without merged cells makes things easier. Copying/pasting sets, lookups, and so on.

You can always use formulas and manipulate data, but the next time you open a data set it's presented like complete dog shit, so the formula you used last time simply doesn't work, then you create a new one. Then someone comes out with a new way to fuck things up.

We use excel for too much also, where we should be using databases in some cases.

All the above issues I've mentioned I've sorted out, but just to give you an example. Sometimes you look at the way things are done and think "wow, why the FUCK are we doing it this way* then suggestions fall on deaf ears due to pride.

I don't fall out with people, I make handy macros which I keep stored in my own personal macro workbook, which I can use from the ribbon, which save me a ton of time. More time for me to do my own "thang" then.

It seems most people like to MANUALLY do lookups rather than using VLOOKUPS or INDEX & MATCH. Those two fucking formulas save SO. MUCH. TIME.
A big part of my job is data entry in excel.  At the end of the month each month I have a day where its literally 9 hours of entering stuff into excel sheets, pulling the data and re entering it.  It sucks sometimes but its only once a month. 
What are KSAs?
Your linked post from last week was an interesting read, as was the previous post you linked in it. I began hoping there would be a deeper rabbit hole of Feirnt's Rules on Data and Analysis.
Great insight here. I like particularly that the comment you linked had in itself another comment you linked (with your rules on Data and Analysis).
How many years have you been in analytics?
P&C for life brotha!(I'm personal lines myself) I use excel for some forms of analysis, or to run common reports, or prepare reports for internal or external purposes.

I even use Excel for very easy help in writing code so i don't have to manually write a comma after every line or something.
Oh no, I would never consider excel as a true database, I was referring more to my own experiences that a lot of my work within excel is greatly simplified (and saved) by treating data in a spreadsheet the same way I'd treat data from a relational database. Excel is such a easy tool to jump into to perform easy data tasks that people lose sight of what may happen when that manual spreadsheet becomes part of a process, regular reporting, or business critical system. The freedom and flexibility to make cells just calculate just doesn't work the same way when you're in a true database or programming environment.  Yet for business, its that flexibility, low cost, and quick turnaround people always strive for.

Thanks for sharing your experience. As an Excel developer working more on the business side of things, I can always appreciate when IT is able to deliver on something new that makes my dirty Excel work easier. You must have had quite the reputation to be called on to innovate tough actuarial data processes. Hope I can be that lucky and find a job where my work can focus more on discovering industrial strength solutions instead of doing down and dirty, quick and easy work in just Excel. 
[deleted]
There's drugs for that now.
do tell
Thanks for getting back to me. I appreciate your insight. I'm currently working my way through college. Still haven't graduated, and recently left my event planning job. I'm looking to maybe get my 'foot in the door' somewhere doing data entry / assistant work while I work towards my degree.  And when I qualify for jobs higher up in the company after graduation I'll try and work my way up the ladder. I'm hoping companies like to higher within. Thanks again. 
OP, This is a great example of the data acquisition and rationalization steps I mentioned.
That's what I'm asking... What stats are you saying are advanced
How long were the periods between programming languages you learned? Excel --> VBA ---> Access ----> SQL  ?

Oh, and what did you work on after the games? I want to stick to Data Analytics and Data Science from the get go - I just finished college.
True
Thank you for the information. Any suggestion on software to become familiar with? So far in university we've worked mostly with ChemCAD for processes and Matlab for controls.

Also I'll trust your judgment on SPE but I have to ask, is it the type of group that I actually get something out of, or is it just something for me to say I'm a part of, if you know what I mean?
did you know it before you were hired ? I find that people want others with experience in those systems before being hired but most people don't know specific systsem, just algorithms used inside the system.
Oh you silly silly workaholic you <(ツ)>
I was thinking about going through a recruiting agency and ask for $55k because I have computer programming experience but I don't have a CPA.
Knowledge skills abilities.  
Maybe it is just an abbreviation my bureau used but that's what they always said
15 years or so. The first 10 were on the 'line' in two different jobs, then 5 years of management. 
Sorrry. I forgot to mention we make woodmounted stamps and engrave the customers image in the rubber and on top of the woodblock the rubber is mounted to.
Well to be honest I'm pretty drunk at a bar right now and typing is hard. So I'll sum it up as everyone is different, I love working with my hands and labor intensive jobs. I'm an accountant because it pays well, so that may make me a whore. Do you buddy, if an easy dull repetitive job is what you want while focusing on life outside of work I understand. I just miss doing work that made me feel accomplished. End of the day, I don't feel like I did anything counting corporations billions. 
[deleted]
>How long were the periods between programming languages you learned? Excel --> VBA ---> Access ----> SQL  ?

It was a while, but mostly because I was young and didn't thing of it as a career choice until much later. I made baseball and boxing games using only formulas as a senior in high school. It was probably sophomore/junior year of college when I started with really learning VBA and object oriented programming. A couple years later while at my first job I needed to move the data from excel to access because spreadsheets started slowing down, so learned SQL. Never really learned Access as much as used it to store data because it was a db that was already on my computer.


>Oh, and what did you work on after the games? I want to stick to Data Analytics and Data Science from the get go - I just finished college.

In my free time a made data analysis tools to sit on top of the free Lahman baseball database. Team builders/fantasy draft helpers/query tool that built SQL for you/etc. Finding projects you want to do is important as it will be fun but also portfolio building as you look for jobs. Doesnt have to be groundbreaking.

I worked for a year as a glorified concierge at our local hospital out of college. Automated most everything except the phone calls using vba, then applied to the data warehouse team and have been in data analysis/analytics/development for the last 5 years. Sometimes just getting the foot in the door is huge. Big places have lots of opportunities as you figure out where you are going career wise.


Software really depends on where you go and what you want to do. I'd say learn spotfire and Excel really well. The petroleum specific software is really expensive and varies by company. If you are wanting to work as a reservoir engineer your software will be different than a drilling engineer which will be different than an operations engineer. You'll have to figure out which field you'll want to go in. I work for a bank, which is closest to reservoir engineering but it's probably the smallest subset. There's only a handful of actual Petroleum Engineers that work for banks. 

SPE can be beneficial if you attend the conferences and meetings. Otherwise it's just something to say you're a part of. My school had an SPE chapter and various companies would bring lunch and gives talks about what they do. It was all high level stuff that they can cover in under an hour but the actual SPE meetings are a little more in depth. 
I'd never even heard of it before. I've used quickbooks, Peachtree and great plains. This i think is the best of all of them, but I'm pretty quick to learn new programs. I'd say 70%-80% of the work i do is in excel anyway, we have accounting/data entry folks who use the ERP more than i do. Funny thing is they usually come to me for help. 

My current employer didn't really care that i didnt know the system since im better than they are with excel
For a company looking to fill a vacant accounting position, accounting knowledge is more valuable than programming experience. If you don't have accounting knowledge you're extremely unlikely to land a $55k accounting role.
> on the 'line' 

What does that mean?
Yo I totally get you. I just want a job that I can have to focus on life outside of work, like you said. Do you do any computer programming to automate your job though? Like, how much is actual counting? I can't immagine you are really doing that much counting but I could be wrong
Yes, exactly. ANOVA, regression, survival analyses, and mostly chi-square. Not super advanced but it isn't always necessary in my line of work. 

What's your research project on? I'm in a PhD program atm and am starting to think about my own research. I love this stuff!
What kind of stats though?
Yeah, I automated myself out of a job at a global asset management company and basically did the same at a different temp job. I'm aiming for systems analytics at a hospital. Would be a dream job because it is a noble job.
A regular worker.
[deleted]
I don't know about noble, but you definitely feel like you are making a difference.

There's a definite path if you know SQL well. Basic report writer jobs can be found at a lot of hospitals, be it in IT, or finance, or some other area that will want SQL and data analysis skills. Then get certified on the specific electronic health record (EHR) and you're in good shape. Most places will send you to the classes to get your certification and some jobs would require it within x months of starting.

For instance we have Epic (market leader for EHRs). I have certifications in three different data/analytics tracks as a developer (Their relational database, their operational self-serve reporting tool, and their dashboarding tool). I don't see myself ever leaving where I am, but if something happened and I did, I should be able to find a job just about anywhere in the country in healthcare.
umm, can you explain. Sorry, I don't get it. Whats a regular worker and what is a non-regular worker?
I've also used Decision Trees, which are actually pretty interesting!
> Then get certified on the specific electronic health record (EHR) and you're in good shape. Most places will send you to the classes to get your certification and some jobs would require it within x months of starting.

Looking for an opportunity like this right now. How should I sell myself to hospital hiring manager if I have experience with programming languages such as VBA, SQL, Python, HTML, JavaScript? I mean, is there something I can build and present to the hiring manager that will get me hired? Are there certain algorithms I can brag about that I know of?
'on the line' refers to being on the production line (it's an older term) at a factory. Typically someone on the line didn't have anyone reporting to them, and they did some sort of compartmentalized and commoditized role. Someone inspecting widgets on production line #44 is on the line. The guy up in the office reading inspection reports from the five people on line #44 isn't 'on the line'.
i'm guessing he means that he wasn't managing anyone else.
[deleted]
From comment history it looks like you are moving to Michigan?

Something like this is probably the right type of thing to shoot for as a starter position. It's not close to Grand Rapids, but it should give you an idea of what to look for
https://www.healthcaresource.com/beaumonthealth/index.cfm?fuseaction=search.jobDetails&template=dsp_job_details.cfm&cJobId=100013365&source=Indeed.com


When I interviewed, I mainly focused on projects that I'd done and how they were helpful. For instance I created a database for tracking outgoing communication that eliminated duplicate entry, reduced errors, and auto-generated customized letters saving hours of work each week. Or, I have experience using SQL as part of a side project where I created my own version of Monopoly in Excel. I write all the turns and actions to a database and then produce in-app reports for ROI and other analysis of the game.

No need to fancy it up. It is what it is.  It made for fun conversation and I was confident of the technical side of it. I was honest about the things I didn't know, but tried to prove myself as self-motivated, curious, a quick learner, and a team player.

My recommendation would be instead of focusing on listing skills or algorithms, focus on talking about how you applied one or two specific skills/algorithms to problems and solved them. I'm far less impressed with someone who says they know something than someone who can prove they know something.
[This Article *PDF direct Download*](https://www.cs.princeton.edu/courses/archive/spring07/cos424/papers/mitchell-dectrees.pdf) does an excellent job explaining how it works! It's directed at people programming their own, but there are programs available that do it for you. I used [Rapidminer](https://rapidminer.com/) for my undergrad thesis but R and Python both have packages/libraries that do the same things! 

I highly recommend the article, especially because Rapidminer doesn't give you a good idea of what everything you're choosing means!
