How important is it to be competent in Excel out in the work-force?
Excel is used by every office, in every company, in the world. That in itself should tell you how important it is.

There are lots of "Excel Wizards" in offices - but these are just people who know how to use an IF statement, conditional formatting and a VLOOKUP. Once you get into the good stuff of Excel, it blows minds, saves so much time and money and can put you in a very powerful position.

Flair changed to discussion.
So of course it  depends on what you do - like as an electrical engineer, I could get away with just creating graphs or just filling out tables. When I have my systems engineering hat on, I'm only using it to fill out requirements tables. However, the finance people have Excel open all the time.

Having said that, Excel is ubiquitous and very often used for tasks that it wasn't even designed for (or that Access would be much better at), so I would at least learn the basics. Watching 1 hour of YouTube videos will put you above most people, by the way. Learn about formats, absolute/relative references, lookup formulas (VLOOKUP and INDEX MATCH), filters, sorting, and graphing. That's the basics. If you learn Pivot Tables, you'll impress most people in your office.

I would say Word is still more important to know, but there's less to learn, at least compared to most people. Learn about styles and references, and you'll be set. Like if you know how to put in "As shown in Figure 10", and have the 10 update automatically after inserting a figure before it, you're doing better than half your coworkers.

Powerpoint is 3rd in line, but easy to learn. Just learn about Slide Master view - if you understand how to make slide masters/slide templates, you'll do fine. 
It depends on the job.  I have excel open everyday.  I don't think I have created anything in powerpoint in 5 years, I don't have access installed, and the most advanded thing I do in word is make some text bold.

Of course, I work in accounting.  It should be obvious, but numbers are important.  Somebody in marketing might rely more heavily on power point, and somebody in copy writing might rely more heavily on word. 

This forum is obviously very biased.  There are of course jobs that will never touch excel.  One would assume those people are not on a forum dedicated to excel.  

What do you do for a job, or what do you want to do for a job?

For some people, you could spend a week learning basic functions and be fine, for other jobs, you might benefit from spending months learning VBA. 
[deleted]
Of the four programs you mentioned, Excel is IMO the most valuable.

Word is handy, but really all its most complicated features are of most use to secretaries who are producing a lot of letters. If you're not doing that, the very basics of Word are really all you need - being *really good* at Word won't make much difference.

PowerPoint is again pretty limited in scope - if you work in marketing or something where you'll be doing a lot of presentations then yeah it will help to be decent with PowerPoint, but being *really good* with it has limited extra value.

Access and databases in general are extremely powerful, but frankly if your company needs them it probably also needs dedicated IT people as well, and they will usually handle any direct database manipulation that's required. It's a bit too specialised to justify learning Access over Excel. If you're going to get really good at one of these others in addition to Excel though, I would say Access.

Excel bridges the gap almost perfectly - it's versatile and powerful enough that becoming really good with it provides a lot of extra value, while being common enough that almost every business will be able to employ that knowledge in some way to help a lot in almost every role.
if you aren't scared when you venture in to the "Developer" or "formulas" tab, you're a god
In finance/accounting/audit, advanced knowledge is a must. And if you know macros, you'll be hailed a god. 
Look at it this way, nobody cares about a PowerPoint or Word power user. If you're good at Excel, however, you can make money off of it. And a lot of it. And Access isn't hard to branch off of from Excel. 

And after that you just take some SQL courses, become a data analyst, and have a boring as fuck high-paying easy job for forever. 
As has been said here before, being really good at Excel can make you very valuable. The problem is, *everyone* thinks they're good at Excel, so you have to be better than everyone else and make sure everyone knows it (I recently had someone come to me for help: first she told me she was really good in Excel, and then asked me to explain how to do a VLOOKUP). People don't understand how much you can do with Excel: once you've shown you can save time and money with your Excel skills you'll be considered very valuable.
I'm pretty handy with excel and can out together some good macros to save a lot of time because I can decipher what macros are doing and modify to suit what I'm looking to do. Thank goodness for folks on here and other various excel help forums who share their knowledge. I have a reputation as being a problem solver on the office and being efficient. Like it was already said, most of the people considered wizards are simply people who create vlookup and index/match formulas. Macros I've put together for work have been huge money savers, taking a two hours a day manual job of pulling data from emails and pasting them into different tabs of a workbook, 30 seconds start to finish with an outlook macro and an excel macro. 
If you're working in finance/financial services/accounting, you will be in Excel everyday, for a good part of the day. You should be comfortable with the basics before your first day. Depending on what you do, you'll need more in-depth knowledge. If I was your manager, and you asked me on day one which Excel skills you should master for the job, I'd make it my business to help you in anyway I could. 

You should also start learning VBA to automate repetitive tasks. Also, though it's not Excel, you should learn SQL and/or PL/SQL. There are a lot of online tutorials to help you get started. 
Learn it. Live it. Love it.
Learn to use Excel in ways that doesn't require VBA. A lot of companies nowadays prevent macro-laden documents from being emailed due to ransomware and other malware. You end up with a couple of benefits.

1- it's easier to pass on your work. If you're planning to stay with the company but get promoted, making your work easy to understand to use will make you more valuable. 
2- VBA is really, really useful. But if you leave, you may leave the company in a bind. This may or may not matter to you, but your peers and boss will appreciate your thoughtfulness when you comment appropriately.
 
I know, most people recommend becoming VBA wizards. I've moved in the opposite direction due to my personal experience. Hope this helps some.
Based on where I work, competence in Excel isn't important in the slightest.

Which is good for me because it keeps me in work, but it also means I'm the go-to for any "How do I add up these five cells?" type questions.
Very
It does depend on the job, as many have said here, but keep in mind how versatile Excel is. If you can do something passably well in Excel, and your company doesn't have to buy an expensive purpose-built program for hundreds or thousands of dollars, you can see its value.
As everyone has said before me, having an intermediate  Excel skill set will come in handy in almost every job. But the thing about PowerPoint is the ability to express your thoughts and ideas using something other than words. So if you're asking this question for professional development purposes, I'd advise you to learn how Excel functions work and the problems they can solve for you; there's this subreddit, YouTube videos, etc. to show you how to write the formula. And learn how to create a compelling infographic instead of investing too much time in learning how to make text fly in from the right (or whatever) in PowerPoint. You'll figure out that part in <5 minutes. 
It probably depends on the job but I think Excel is a great skill to be able to put on a resume. I was a Spanish major in college and during my last semester, on a whim, I took a class on Excel and basic Access. If I had not taken that class, I'm fairly certain I would not have gotten my initial entry-level  job at the company I've now been working at for 6 years, nor would I have been promoted to my current job where I use Excel every single day. It's just a very useful skill to have in general. 
If you get an office job in which you have to exercise any judgment at all, you'll need to be competent at Excel to track the data you're basing your decisions on, and do the analysis - even simple analysis - you need to do in order to make those decisions.

I use excel *probably* more than any other application. I'd say it's handy to know to make your own job a hell of a lot simpler, easier and more accurate. Typically, I save *myself* a lot of time.
My experience has being an Excel Wizard is enough to wow most people.
If you know what you're doing in Excel and people know that you're proficient, you'll start getting requests for help.  It's been a great way for me to network with senior managers and directors at every company I've worked for.
This. All of this. I was the "guru" in my old office because I knew index match vlookup if statements and nested functions. 

In my current office my boss is probably the best excel user I have ever met. He builds macros to automate literally every process in the office and interfaces excel with databases. 

Excel is one way you can push yourself ahead of everyone else in the office. Its an amazing resource.
I will add to this, knowing how to use solver, not just how to construct formulas, is extremely helpful.


[deleted]
Excel can also save your company money or help earn additional revenue. It's the outcome of the tool use that is important. 
I'm in accounting and can confirm: Excel runs a company.
We have everything: SAP, Cognos, Tableau, etc., yet most things end up as an export to Excel.
Electrical engineer here. I have a series of spreadsheets that are linked together sizing services, performing fault current calcs, and sizing feeders and wires. VB Macros, vlookups, pivot tables, and everything. 
It's funny you mention Word. For myself, it is probably the least used office program . For myself and people at my office, I'd say order of importance goes 

(1) Excel

 (2) PowerPoint

 (3) Visio
Which you tube videos do you suggest?
Our local high school got rid of Microsoft Office and keyboarding many years ago. It is the only gap in my kids' education
False. VBA is requirement for entry level positions that pay the average salary in my area in the world.
False. VBA is requirement for entry level positions that pay the average salary in my area in the world.
As a consultant, powerpoint and excel are 1a and 1b in a "most important programs" list for our profession
I find it nice to have a website to host excel document and a short summary on how the document is designed. It really help me fight against the people who think they know excel. Do note that you should not be hosting sensitive data so use fictional data or game marketing data. 






Agree 100 %. I like to talk about an Excel "fallacy" in which people who boast they know Excel, don't really know Excel at all. At this point in my career I don't know anyone better at Excel than me, and yet, when I Google for solutions I'm always amazed at what others can do. 
Yep, in my company I'm not allowed to use VBA in any excel file that we are going to share with the client. Not as much because of malware but because my boss likes that the client is able to see where the numbers are coming from and that is not just "magic".
Same. When I just knew my way around the Excel menus and a few shortcuts, people were already coming to me for help. When I started messing with macros and writing VBA scripts it melted brains. I'm not even that good but still way ahead of anyone else I know.
I am a novice at the vba arts.

I feel like a lot of the vb gods on forums forget that there are thousands of companies out there, and at most 200 of them have someone better than an if-statement-smith. And they usually do a comparable job, they just sweat more for it.


Yeah, it's rarely a job path in itself but it makes you useful and that's valuable
Now try power query and powerpivot. Got rid of 90% of my VBA macros by learning those tools.
That being said, I've yet to use / have a need for solver, while I've pretty much replaced entire workbooks by using larger, more complex formulas.
That makes Merge Cells an Unforgivable Curse,
[Relavant](https://www.reddit.com/r/excel/comments/5f67r7/how_important_is_it_to_be_competent_in_excel_out/daiw695/)
Yeah, I even use copy and paste to get things into Excel. Sometimes it's the search and filter interface you wish your third party cloud system could have thought of.
Excelisfun on YouTube 
[ExcelIsFun](https://www.youtube.com/user/ExcelIsFun) gets my vote too.
Wow, that is a fairly sizable gap.  Why would they do that?
That has not been my experience in either manufacturing or consulting sectors I have worked in 
Really? What is your area? I don't see how VBA is needed for anything other than a data analyst like position. In the above 3 fields imo VBA will save you hours on data download/formatting/editing but is nowhere near required.
I like the phrase "Excel fallacy"!

I'm at the same place as you: I don't know of anyone with more knowledge of Excel than I have, yet if someone asks I tell them I'm an intermediate user, since I know how much there is I don't know (I get a lot of arguments from people who can't believe I don't consider myself an expert...).
Hate how people below keep saying knowing vba makes you a god. It is pretty standard across the finance industry to know vba. You won't make more because you know vba. In fact, you might even lose your job.
This sounds like every Linux forum ever.
I'm intrigued. Any tips, tricks or tutorials?
I use solver probably on a weekly basis.  Though I wish to know how it works more, I only use it for one generally more specific task.  So it may not be extremely useful, but when you need to use it, it is extremely handy.
Thanks!
They didn't have the money to invest in the technology I guess. Before they shit it down they were teaching Office 2000. It was 2011 when my son started as a freshman

I think they are now teaching it in junior high. But several years of kids lost these skills
I always remember reading about a school that had dropped things like typing in favour of Powerpoint following the reasoning that Powerpoint is more "managerial" than the other programs.

Not sure I believe that.
Go on.
Let's put it this way, people don't want to hire my because I know VBA. I was just outside NYC, now moving because of it.
I started with [ExcelisFun tutorials on Powerpivot and Power Query](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yjASjwJCIxA&list=PLrRPvpgDmw0nGCx21PRFbsJpUIH06LKs-).


What do you use it for?
That's depressing. I'm not saying it's the most important subject, but it is definitely involved in every discipline, in varying depths. It's fascinating anyone wouldn't want it to be mandatory.
That's so sad. Like, you have to have some core competencies to be able to get to management. It at least, in an ideal situation you do. Knowing excel and typing and word is helpful. No, I don't think you should take the same computer class every year, but at least a semester or two in high school would be good.
I recommend softening statements in the future, you will find people are more likely to help you.
In manufacturing, a ton of data is stored, analyzed and manipulated in Oracle databases. This then has to interface with a ton of different programs that management bought licenses for because they made pretty graphs and they like pretty graphs, even though the two platforms are not seamlessly compatible. A Good intermediary is Excel - every program, everywhere, can play with excel. Tab or comma-delimited datasets can be put in excel, manipulated, and then exported to another program fairly easily. VBA can automate this task so that report compiling becomes less a chore and more a button you hit as you leave your office to go get coffee. Of course, this is replicated for anything you have to do in excel more times than once - three or more, use a "for". Inventory, cycle counts, schedules, all manner of reports...Excel may not be the best program for all of these things, but it is what people use and are familiar with, so you can be useful if you can make data talk to people in a format they are familiar with.

As a consultant, a ton of business I do is excel-based. Autocad can tag elements in a drawing with what they correspond to IRL - this particular drawing element is a display with a certain number of inputs, certain size, certain resolution, etc. This was mind-numbingly dull to create, but now this data dump can be imported in to excel and manipulated to ensure equipment compatibility and drawing-to-equipment list accuracy. 
How is this different from Access?
I've used it in the past when I can't get a bank reconciliation to work out. I give it the amount I'm off and all the transactions for the month, and see if it can find any numbers that work together to make the amount I'm off.
.
I use it when I am trying to find out what amounts (if any) match up to a different amount from a different source.  I carry on with something else while it does its magic.

It is great when there isn't a clear pattern.
...why should excel be mandatory? The average person should be able to pick up the basics in a couple days. Kids should learn actually important fundamentals, such as computer programming and math, that will make them into "excel guru's". Moreover, a general education will give them the fundamentals to learn a broad variety of technologies more advanced than just spreadsheets.  

I use excel every goddamn day, but it definitely didn't need to be taught. Computer science education has done more than a mediocre spreadsheet class ever could.  
The reporting/graphing capabilities of Excel are much more robust than access, and the ability to reconfigure pivot tables on the fly to answer questions while sitting in a meeting with management, including the ability to throw it into a graph for easy visual comprehension, trumps Access. The other feature I use constantly is the ability to make a calendar table with various contexts (week-ending, year-month, day of the week, etc.), and tie it to a date column in my data, thereby enabling me to slice my data by whatever timeframe.
I used to manually check bank deposits vs expected cash. I now have someone doing it for me. You have a crash course summary on how you set this up?
Computer use in general, sorry. They were talking about how they had stopped teaching office programs and typing at the high school. I get what you mean, but surely you see all the people who have essentially 0 comprehension of computer magic works... I don't see the harm in teaching another year/semester of computer work in high school. Many people in my office don't know how to resize columns in excel, much less do anything meaningful.
I would tend to agree.  I've been tasked with certain things that I have never used before, and I figure it out very quickly, because I know how to use excel, and I am conformable using their built in help to show me a formula I have never used, and I have at least a little bit of programming experience that helps me think analytically

Its more important to learn critical thinking skills, which can be used in excel and everything else in life..  

Add in control bits to allow Solver to include/exclude each line item. Here's a quick example I put together:

[Before](http://i.imgur.com/DwYPax3.png)

[After](http://i.imgur.com/r03zWCT.png)

Some things to remember:

- Solver will try to find *a* solution. It might not find *the* solution. For example if there were more than one combination of line items that arrive at the same error, Solver will stop at the first one it finds, which might not be the actual error.

- This is a very small example with only 13 line items, and it still took a couple of seconds for Solver to get to the solution (admittedly I should have picked LP Simplex instead of GRG Nonlinear, but still). For very large reconciliations it could take a long time for Solver to find a solution. I have known it to crash a computer or two before. Save everything before trying this.
Thanks! I'll take a look at the office when I have time. Haven't used solver yet, but I've heard so many good things.
Thanks for that, it's actually been awhile since I've used it.
