The 2016 Financial Modeling World Championships are on the 5th of December!
/r/theocho
If anyone can find some of the finalists models from previous years please let me know!
I like that pwc has two entrants.

Bet that's not a coincidence.. 
Dang upset I am hearing about this just now, think I would actually have a good shot at this lol.
I'm very interested in this, but where are the women? 
I subbed it there too. Great thought. LOL I Have zero idea how to xpost, so... yeah.
There are some past questions and worked answers [here](http://www.modeloff.com/questions-old/). 
I would love to see this as well.
Supposedly a former colleague in my practice was a finalist. 
I'm a finalists from a couple years ago, and there are at least two others who are subscribed to this sub. What exactly would you like to see?
It is in my opinion a far from perfect test of modelling ability, but they genuinely do work hard to ensure that it's fair. Those two PwC guys got there on merit.
I don't know how, but I'm always invited every year.  Maybe you have to be nominated, but in not sure.
It is on every year, and anyone can enter as /u/fenix2230 suggested
A woman won a couple of years back. Everyone wants more women to be there but there is no appetite for a separate league or to give women a handicap (especially from the women themselves). There are some outstanding female modellers. How can we attract more brilliant women to the profession and encourage them to compete? [edited spelling]
I'm a woman, but I am no where near that level. I'm not really sure. No Morgan Stanley females?
Awesome, thank you!
These look great.  Some absolutely look harder than others.  
I was hoping there would be a video or file or something that goes over the problem and their models solving it.
I'm sure they did. But surprised to not see anyone from the other big 4 represented. 
Hmm ok thanks, I will def participate next year.  I am actually surprised there are no tech companies on here, I know a bunch of pretty good modelers out here in Silicon Valley / SF. 
Where can I learn more about this? This is the first I have heard about his competition. 
I imagine their busy actually modeling. I think there's a lot of people that are just busy with work. I know some fairly unbelievable government *and* private sector modelers, and I would love to see them take a stab at this, but they're just happily too busy to enter a contest.
You go with yoself financial modeler!!! =)
That's a great idea. I'm seeing the organisers next week and will suggest it to them, and it's they don't go for it then ask if I can share the same myself.

The closest thing that's currently available are worked solutions to previous problems. These contain the answers, and in some cases an explanation of how the answers are found. In some cases the worked solutions are nice examples that you could hope to achieve in the competition. In other cases the worked solutions are laughably long-winded. They can be found at http://www.modeloff.com/questions/.
I suspect it is talked about and pushed more within PwC than the rest of the Big4, that they therefore field more competitors and as a result are well represented in the finals. The first winner was from PwC, he went on to join the question design team, and PwC is now a major sponsor.

It would be interesting if the organisers published stats on competitors from big companies, but that seems unlikely as it might risk the growth of their competition.
I've had a look at entering in the past, but it's very specifically *financial* modelling.  Check out the sample problems - some of them look like they require solid knowledge both of financial products and of Excel's specialist financial functions.  With a basic understanding you could perhaps work out what's going on and then calculate things using normal functions / UDFs.  However you won't be as fast and efficient as someone who has specialised in that modelling.
Awesome, please spread the word! I bet most of them don't even know about it. There's a good chance one of those / you guys could take it out.
In my opinion the way to learn best is to dive in and have a go at the competition. Otherwise there is lots of info on their website (albeit somewhat scattered) and they have a networking event in various cities each year.
They cunningly put the first two rounds on the weekend. Your point still stands, and additionally people have other things going on in their lives.
I am so glad I posted. Pleasure to read you, good modeler.  As far as I am concerned, you could do a twitch account of this or live youtube, etc.  CSPAN has Congress all day. There's DEFINITELY an audience for this, just to be a fly in the room, etc.  Of course, when we can get to VR that will be the money-maker! LOL No but really.... this stuff is AWESOME. Thanks. I am pretty sure the smart and ethical modelers will be able to help solve most everything. =)
I did two of the sample sets, they were not as hard as alot of the financial problems (I work in marketing, but get pulled into helping out finance teams 1-2 times a month) I deal with every day (no VBA required, mostly simple index / match / vlookups / discounting type problems).  Also the time limits felt a bit long for the problems, but if they expect the top scores to get every question right I can see why it can get pretty competitive (verifying and QAing can sometimes take as long as creating a model). 
good point tho
If you're ok with the time pressure and not confused by financial aspect, you have a real chance to do very well in this competition.

I am not ok with the time pressure, so generally don't finish and typically goof on a section or two, but have still made the finals once and was apparently very close two other times (50/50 on whether they say that to everyone).
