Happy Life, Happy Wife, Better Excel, Less Hell.
First of all, it's, "Happy wife, happy life". Perhaps your problems with excel are due correlative misunderstandings.
Proper Title, Show and Tell, Crappy Title, r/Excel hell.

Please review the [Submission guidelines](https://www.reddit.com/r/excel/wiki/sharingquestions) **presented when you posted.**

Most specifially post titles: Put a description of the problem in the post title!  

This looks like a great tool, but with a title like this very hard for people to find in Search or similar.

Flair set to Discussion.
I'm a big proponent of K.I.S.S when it comes to spreadsheets.... is this something you created to show your wife or for yourself?  Just remember, sometimes it's confusing when you're showing too much to someone else.... like not sure how listing your possessions or your craigslist transactions paints a better picture of how you're paying off your debt... unless you're in the process of selling everything you own?

To start off, get rid of the N/A's with IFERROR function. 

Your dashboard looks bleak. No future income? You can enter numbers for minimum income that you expect in the future so it doesn't look like you are going to be starting the year off without any source of income.


That guys spreadsheet was so needlessly complex and people fell head over heels for it. 
On mobile so only an aesthetic tip, rotate your text by 90 degrees in column B on summary tab.
Your title made me chuckle. For the first time I wasn't entirely sure I was seeing a post from /r/Excel in my feed
.
You have obviously thought about this a great deal -- and you have done a great job with it!

My advice is really about personal preferences. I offer the following...

Examine your personal financial position like a business. There are key things you want to monitor in a business:

* Assets
* Liabilities
* Cash flow

You actually have most of this, but it's rather scattered. 

For myself, I made a balance sheet. This is made up of the first two items. Assets are listed at the top, liabilities below, and then equity (net worth) is calculated. Each of these data points has a changing value over time, so I put the items in rows and the valuations in columns. This is very similar to your 'Numbers' sheet, 

I also made a cash flow sheet. This shows income, spending, and net cash over time. It is useful (albeit kind of difficult) to break down the spending part into useful buckets. My current challenge to myself is to improve this part of my analysis.

Regardless, if you organize data in this way, you can plan more effectively and challenge assumptions. For instance, one time I took a look at my debts. The question I faced was 'what should I do with extra cash?' Assumptions from abroad suggested I should snowball loans X, Y, and Z. However, I determined I was better off using *some* of the cash to snowball loan X, but use the rest to build an asset (401k in my case). 

On a technical level, it looks like you are doing a lot of data entry. A better way (in my generalized view) is to download the details you need, and use formulas to summarize the results elsewhere. I definitely still do point data entry in certain places, but the bulk of my analysis is driven by formulas and lots of raw data.

Your question seems to have cross-over points with r/personalfinance, so you may want to check out that sub as well.

Good job, and good luck!
Good point. I was much to focused on trying to have a decent title that I completely flubbed that up. 
But maybe it isn't? Maybe it really is, "Happy life, happy wife?"
It's more for me to see everything and kinda keep tabs on all he things I've invested money in awhile. The dashboard is mainly there for her. And it's hard to predict the future when you're still in school without related full time employment with benefits. I thank you for your advice though
As an engineering student. I tend to find beauty in complex...or just numbers.  
Noted. Thank you. 
Thanks for your input. I do eventually plan on getting feedback from /r/personalfinance but I know the spreadsheet needs much more work until they will accept it from the finance aspect. My goal here to plot a lot of data at first and then slowly rim down the unnecessary categories. I want to make a snowball tab that automatic and something to show future growth. But in reality I just like have one stop for all my financial information 
reddit destroys all of us and our potential.
this is what it should be

people who say happy wife, happy life generally have neither, and are on antidepressants
