What "good" jobs can you get with strong proficiency in Excel and basic proficiency in SQL, Tableau and Python?
Business Intelligence / Data Analyst would leverage those tools the most, but even a Marketing Analyst in a tech company would too. 

Financial Analyst roles would utilize most of those technologies, though scripting to somewhat of a lesser degree, but YMMV depending on the scope and complexity of the work involved. A financial engineer / quantitative analyst is more like a software engineer than an accountant in my mind, therefore needing scripting or outright code (VBA, Python, Java, C++/#, etc) as they're developing solutions for complex problems (trading strategies and automation, modeling fixed income and/or other derivatives, risk/ALM modeling and simulation, FX and swaps, etc).

Operations and Project Management would be the least likely place to FULLY leverage those skill sets, but CAN be data intensive, so definitely YMMV depending on the organization and scope of responsibilities.

Ultimately these are tools used to solve problems/make life easier, and tend to be used to extract and manipulate operational, transactional, and financial data from various systems to make sense of and better understand customers, gauge the health of an organization, or simply streamline processes/work flows through automation and data transformation. Proficiency, expertise, and knowing what to do with these tools and when ultimately dictates earnings potential.

The salary range for most of these roles is a minimum of $45k (on avg) for entry level w/no experience and top out in the low to mid $100s depending on complexity of the work and technical proficiency/expertise. Quants and those dealing with highly complex financial/statistical problems command a much higher salary and potential bonus structure. A GOOD quant at a big bank (think Goldman Sachs) or hedge fund? 6-7 figures...but your life will be your work. More senior risk managers at Credit Suisse, Deutsche, etc can see salaries in the $300-400k range before bonus. 
[Here's an article that goes into the types of things you can expect to find regarding Data Analyst positions.](http://www.mastersindatascience.org/careers/data-analyst/)
There is currently a large push for these types of skills in government finance.
Can you also make Powerpoint slides? Don't mind plane flights? Enjoy expensing everything? Love trying to burn off shitty restaurant food in a hotel gym that only has a leg curl machine, a broken treadmill, and half of a barbell? Congrats, you have what it takes to be a Strategy Consultant!

Entry level is ~$70K+ and you get to keep all the hotel and airline points you can carry! Side effects may include weight gain, being single, uncontrollable utterances of non-words like "learnings", and mandatory stints in Bentonville, Arkansas.
It's going to vary geographically. 

If you're near certain metros (SF, NYC, Boston, a few others) and can layer on a basic understanding of digital advertising, there are tons of analytics roles looking for this skill set. 
I'm looking for just such a person (Jr. Data Analyst). I don't suppose you're in the Detroit area?

I would think with that skill set, most jobs will be entry level (as is the position I'm hiring for), but one of the things I am looking for are people with the 'data gene'. Enthusiasts who want to learn about scripting and data warehousing, etc.
You can find jobs in data analysis, compliance, marketing, operations management, financial analysis.  Data analysis and risk reporting use more of the sql and tableau skillset.  
  
In a medium size city, you should be getting job offers in the 60K range if you have like 2 years of experience.  I still get asked in interviews if I can use v-lookups as if that's the end all, be all skill in excel.  SQL and Python are Huge pluses if you go into finance or risk reporting
If you are looking for something alittle more low key and not quite as stressful there is a world of work using these skills in supply chain. I might not be the best example, but I grew up cutting teeth just in computer/it/tech stuff. It got old. My tech background made me an excellent problem solver, my laziness made me a towering strength for process simplification. I've taken my problem solving and simplification into that arena and learned a great deal about analytics. 

Just to give you an idea, most of our work is done in excel as a worksheet/tracker to research items. From there I branch out into access for personal dbs and query multiple other db types (oracle, teradata, and so on) for information used in research. Its not much in visualization, but it is a good entry level role that puts you can get real world use in advanced excel stuff. 

Again I'll say i'm not the best in excel or SQL, but i utilize both daily and have more than a passing knowledge. 
Financial Technology firms as an analyst
If you have a good understanding of business logic and processes you could look for a Business Analyst position in an IT department - like me!

Happy to go over my main business duties and skillset if you are interested.  Just PM me.
Fraud analyst. You'd also need good knowledge of the field in question.
I work as a CFO of a smaller (46 employees, $20 mil. revenue) financial services company. I've handed over some accounting responsibilities to an auditor, that I now manage, but being proficient in Excel, SQL, and data integration I've worked my way to this position. I've almost single handedly developed the tools and insight (and continuous monitoring) used in growing our sales on the strength of these abilities. 

With that being said there are definitely a lot of people with this skill set, but they just don't know how to utilize it, so you might be better off showing you're a great thinker. 

I also have a master in finance.


[deleted]
Financial Analyst is definitely the route to take with these skills or an interest in learning them. That's what I do and I'm very good at excel and SQL and it helps tremendously for efficiency and reporting data.
you could probably go get a job at a proprietary trading firm doing development at some level. I've been trying to transition into trading derivatives and shit, and so many firms are looking for python and other programming stuff, and I just want to trade. 
If you couple that with some basic accounting knowledge or finance skills, you could get a job in corporate finance.
I don't have a current need for any additional personnel but I would recommend that you look for project based roles. Project planners, project administrators, project coordinators and project managers
This is really useful, thanks. I think I would class myself as a data analyst but I've only got 3 years under my belt and always looking to improve
I work for a defense contractor in program finance, it's almost all excel. If I'm not doing emails or meetings, I'm running reports and working in excel. Not a bad job at all, it can just be hard to initially get a job in the industry. 


Sounds interesting. Where do I sign up?
Are you in that world? How do you like it?
I was so hoping that it would be "Sacramento" - I have the same skillset, looking for the same types of jobs
Remotely doable ? I work on DW / BI  domain, looking for some new projects. 
If you don't mind me asking, what is the salary range for a Jr. Data Analyst in the Detroit area?    How big of a company is it and the type of business?  Just curious to see how things are outside of my tiny bubble here.

Came here to say this.  Similar skills have given me 20y worth of work, and a reasonable daily rate.
very cool man congrats!
I would strongly disagree with this. Having worked alongside people in these roles I would say that there is a much greater emphasis on skills outside of those listed above. More often than not these roles involve engaging with stakeholders over utilising sql skills.
[deleted]
It has its plusses and minuses like anything else. You're not saving the world, but it's steady work and a large, fast-moving market. Corporations have an unrelenting need to communicate at mass scale. 
I'm a business analyst in the NHS ( (U.K. Obviously) and I just had a call today trying to poach me to HSBC for £45k (not sure of conversion rate to dollars) must get 2 or 3 calls a week for this. 
"I am willing to relocate."
Disagree. I am a Program Director and I would hire the OP in a heartbeat for my projects.
No
I'm the trailing spouse - wherever my wife is, I am. 
Are these the skills you typically look for in your project Analyst type roles? Additionally do you think this is the best use of op's skill set?
I know how that goes.  Financial analysis may be good for you.  If you have the quant/technical/Excel skills and at a minimum a basic understanding of finance/accounting, you may be able to find something.  Feel free to PM me if you'd like to discuss.
I do look for people with the OP's skills. Best use of the OP's skill set is not a question for me. IMHO, best utilization of skills is up to the employee. Do they like what they are doing, or do they hate it? Are they passionate? Etc etc
I'm currently a financial analyst! Looking for a new job right now though, for various reasons
