Financial Analysts (or anyone really): when you need to find an answer to an excel question fast... like yesterday.... where is your go to source of information?
depends on what it's for, like there are some pretty good sources for different things, but I gotta say that like 95% of the time it's just straight to google. 

in no particular order, here are some of my "go-to" sites/people, I don't always start up there, but more often than not it's where I end up (other than /r/excel of course ;) )  

Charting: Peltiertech  
Email-automation: Ron de Bruin  
VBA concepts in general: C Pearson  
performance issues: Decisionmodels   
obscure once-a-year error codes: Mr. Excel forums

(pretty much all of the above are listed in the ["where to learn Excel & advice mega thread"](https://www.reddit.com/r/excel/comments/2e28s3/rexcel_advice_thread_repository/) in the side-bar.)

If there's a formula I'm unsure of, or want an example of how to use, the first thing i do is slam the F1 button and hit up the local/office support file. 
Google  
/r/excel  
Stack Exchange/super user  
Calling people  

And that's never failed me yet. I've only had to do #4 once, and it was to collaborate on a project. 
Generally speaking, when I encounter a problem I can break it down into what steps do I need to take to reach my solution. To figure out what steps I have to get there, I usually end up [here](https://www.techonthenet.com/excel/formulas/). Since it lists both Excel Formulas and built-in VBA Functions, it's sort of a catch all source for me.
My favourite: YouTube excelisfun this guy's channel has videos along with accompanying workbooks on just about every formula, shortcut, and trick in excel.

Admittedly it isn't the most sophisticated method of search, but his love of excel is infectious. And as someone who learns easier visually than purely reading, I've found myself glued with interest at how awesome excel is as a program! Now that's saying something! 
I used to have a huge issue with myself trying to magically Google complex end user solutions for my boss. Like he would say do X and make it look like this and this etc, i'd literally google that.

What I learned is break it down in smaller problems/parts. Understand what the ask is, break down step by step. Do step 1, done? good..lets try step 2! By step 5, you run into an issue, but its a smaller problem as you have broken down everything into steps.

This is where expert googlness comes in (if thats a word). Google your small problem and add on tags to the end such as "Mr Excel", "vba express", "ozGrid". These are fairly common forum areas that cover a vast depth of knowledge, and should result in a answer.

Half of the job in programming/excel is being a good researcher when you start out! Hope this helps!
Chandoo.org has a great "ask an excel question" section on their forum. I go their often with questions I cant ask Google.
Google.
Google

My boss (or coworkers) 

My textbooks - great to keep Uni books as they had excel stuff in, on top of that I have a book called "Succeeding in Business with Microsoft Excel" 

/r/Excel
YouTube. Excelisfun channel. You're welcome. 
use google, use related function keywords, issue in 1-3 words, and then the world "solved" right after... i.e "Excel index function dynamic string solved"
[deleted]
I think harder about how I can accomplish what I want to do.

I break the problem down into a step by step process that even if it's wrong in review, it's able to be audited an fixed by the individual who I will be reviewing something with.  Either s/he will agree with what I've put forth or will correct something as we proceed through it.
I see Google mentioned here a few times which is a good place to start but I've found Youtube very helpful at times as well.  Rather than reading how to do something, it shows you.
Some companies contract my company's services. Where you just dial the help desk number and then you are connected to one of our consultants. Within two rings you get a hold of a consultant who can answer your question. Or you know you could spend countless company work hours googling or making a post on StackExchange and wait for someone to reply back.

If I really, really need help with rarer formulae and/or VBA, I cross post between here and stack exchange.   

But the first step is Google. 
Reddit and chandoo.  If you don't know chandoo, Google him.    Genuinely great person that just wants to help people kick ass at excel.
Bing.  Microsoft makes both so it made sense for Bing to be my goto search engine.
Techonthenet.com
You should check out the ExcelIsFun channel on YouTube and search for what you're looking for. He literally has thousands of Excel videos on practically every topic.
Stackoverflow, mrexcel and sometimes chandoo.
You bring in Winston Wolf.

source: am Winston Wolf of Excel
Thank! I never use the F1 button- In my realm it has always had a bad rep- but i'm going back to like Windows 95 when I heard that- i'll start this. And thanks for all your other suggestions I noted them all.
Yep! I started my career 10 years ago not knowing that you needed to put an = sign before doing a calculation. Now I consider myself somewhat decent because of just googling different things and learning that way. appreciate your response!
I will check that book out! thanks! 


Unfortunately- i'm the "Excel guy" in my office ha... 

I'm with you on this one mate. I don't consider myself old my any means, however, Reddit sometimes makes me feel like a grandpa. Appreciate you taking the time to answer. I will check out stackoverflow. 
2nd both Ron de Bruin and Chip Pearson. RDB is a little easier to ingest as a scripting newbie, but Chip has an excellent fire hydrant of information should you choose to go that route. Both have helped me substantially.
You should just rip the F1 off the keyboard, it's only gonna slow you down when you accidentally hit it
> Thank!

Doot doot
Haha good luck! 
