Pulling one workbook to another
1. Yes this is possible to be automated. You can make the single workbook spit out 5 separate documents as needed.
2. No, this is not easy.
3. You'll need to set up a standardized way of collecting information to be able to reliably automate inputting data you receive from customers. Otherwise you'll need to manually sanitize and input your data anyway.
I believe Power Query would be the easiest route for you. Let me know if you're interested and I'll be happy to assist.
Alright, if I were to come up with a standard input method for everyone, what's the process like to automate this? I don't expect you to right it out for me, but any push in the right direction would be appreciated! Thanks for the response!  
You would definitely be using VBA in order to automate everything. Do you already have all your data stored in easy to manage rows? It's easier to store it this way, then output it in however formatting you need in separate worksheets/workbooks. [This site](http://www.rondebruin.nl/) is always a hot topic in this sub regarding VBA coding and practices.

And of course, feel free to ask away regarding VBA in this sub.
What do you mean by easy access rows? I might have it set up properly, just not familiar with the terminology. That site is pretty cool, and will definitely come in handy! Unfortunately, I'm not even really sure where to start. What can I search for ? 
You mentioned having a list of customers with all their info. I'm hoping you have these in a neatly formatted consistent worksheet with which you're able to quickly manipulate if needed. All of this, without needing to worry about the formatting of how to display this information, as all this is for is storing said info about your customers.

As for VBA, you'll want to know how to manage Workbooks/Worksheets along with Cells/Ranges so that you'll know how to create/open/close workbooks, move data between worksheets, as well as identifying what data to move via cells and ranges. You are essentially learning a programming language, as VBA is very similar to VB.NET. So forge ahead with the mindset that this isn't a simple task.
They are organized, at least I think they are. Originally I started with a list of about 2500 customers, but each one was filtered by a product that they have. I have a master list of all 2500 formatted and in a table; I wrote a macro to separate the 2500 by product, which is about 11, and then create a new sheet for each product. Always bringing the exact format and table as the master sheet. Each of the 11 sheets are identical to the master sheet, just broken down. 

Is the macro going to be, roughly stated of course, pull from the master, dump into a new workbook, rinse and repeat for each workbook? I guess I don't understand how to automate to pull automatically each week, and then also update the master sheet when they're updating their own sheets. I'm definitely aware that this will be a tough one to do, but the risk is worth the reward in this case.  
I'd say the easiest method to execute all of this would be to create an array for the number of workbooks you are going to create. I'm assuming this is 11, one for each product. Then iterate through all the rows of data and looking at the product, this would determine which array you copy that row of data into. Once you've iterated through all the rows, you now have an array for each, you can then create workbooks one by one for each array, and copy that array's information into each workbook. After each workbook is filled out, formatting is applied, and the workbook is saved to a default location.

When importing data from the customer's data, you would then have to sort of work backwards in storing their data in an array, then looking for the corresponding rows and updating with the customer info. You would be pushing and pulling data from within your master list to consolidate code and keeping things organized.
Alright, I think that I might of explained my situation poorly. The list that I have is about 2500 items, in one workbook. I have created 5 other workbooks, for 5 other people, that I want to pull 20 of the 2500 and put into each of their workbook. The 11 tabs are for the specific product that each of these 2500 customers have, my way of filtering these customers. Each of those 5 people will input what information they received from each of their 20, and then I want to pull that information back into my master sheet. The problem I'm running into, is completely automating this process. Does that make any more sense? 
If I'm understanding you correctly, the 20 items each of the 5 people are filling out are pulled from the 2500 items that you have in your main workbook? And then you just want to plug the updated info back into your main workbook?

Regarding updating your data from the 20 items each person fills out, are the 11 tabs related to this at all? (I'm still wondering why there are 11 tabs versus autofiltering from a single list of items)
I don't want to update any 20 customers at any time. The 11 tabs break down this 2500 to specific products, allowing us to go after certain products first. Yes we could do the same thing from the master list, but I've found people handle a list of 400 better than 2500. I'm trying to make it as easy as possible for the 5 people to do this, considering some aren't the most technologically advanced.

It makes it much easier to navigate as well, opposed to scanning the entire list, I can just go to the specific tab and then I have everything right in front of me. I guess I should look at each individual tab as the master list. So instead of pulling from 2500, I'm really only pulling from 400, and then I'll just change tabs as needed. I apologize for the confusion, and greatly appreciate the willingness to help me through this.  
