Have you tried to learn VBA or want to start learning it? Tell me about your experience!
1. I know how to implement just about whatever needs implementing, and if I don't know the exact answer, I know the processes that are required to complete an objective.
2. I also got annoyed at the many object models that make up Excel, and the other Office suite software. This is usually the most googled thing whenever I'm working on a large project.
3. Google, and whatever results it pops up with.
4. r/excel, [Microsoft MSDN](https://msdn.microsoft.com), [techonthenet.com](https://www.techonthenet.com/excel/formulas/), [ozgrid.com](http://www.ozgrid.com/), [rondebruin.nl](https://www.rondebruin.nl), [excel-easy.com](http://www.excel-easy.com/), [stackoverflow.com](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/excel-vba)
1. Not as much as I want & because it's fun

2. Not knowing all the billion Object Models

3. Multiple forums, mainly this one. I recently acquired some texts to get into developing and what not

4. r/excel of course! Because it's great!
1- I will like to learn it. but I know near to nothing about it.

2- I am in accounting industry and would like to figure out some uses of it after Step1 

3 - It can help me in my hobby of learning to code

so, a course from very basics would be appreciated. Like those for dummies books. Good luck!

1. Damn near nothing. I want to use it as a stepping stone to get into more coding. I think it is more fun than doing things manually, which is why I want to learn- so I can speed up some of my work tasks.

2. Clean and concise code. Picking off the things that I dont need. setting my variables :s

3.  Reddit, stack overflow, msdn.microsoft.com (Somewhat), short free udemy course, spreadsheet guru, I want to look at more youtube series.

4. I dont really need other sources for the project im currently working on as I just do a lot of recording and editing. When I want to make something shorter/ more efficient I ask here.
Hi Hello,

1) I know how to use control flows pretty well, throw variables every which direction between sub routines and custom functions. I am competent with the different loops and control flows, and have a pretty decent grasp on the different variables utilized in automation of most excel tasks (That being said I might need to google syntax or whatever, but I'd know what to google and how to apply it).

2) The hardest part was grasping how things worked. I don't come from a computer science background, so the first distinction that everything was its own class, object, etc. was confusing.

3) I took a couple of courses on Udemy to get a basic understanding of data types and basic control flows, and since then its been self taught.

4) Google! Whatever source comes up first I'm all about taking in new information on how to solve problems.
> What do you know about VBA and why do you want to learn it?

* I know enough to automate most repetitive tasks. I started learning VBA because I felt that it would be a good stepping stone towards learning programming languages in general and to also learn how to think logically. For an Excel-specific reason, it made projects I worked on that extra professional-looking

> If you've tried learning VBA, what did you struggle with the most?

* I'm still struggling with knowing what correct object names to use i.e. the hierarchy from workbook level down to the properties of cells. I find myself having to google most of the time. Logically, I can picture in my head what I need to do but the difficulty is actually knowing what to write.

> What resources have you used, if any, to try and learn VBA?

* I started learning from here http://www.homeandlearn.org/index.html. In my opinion, I think the best way to learn is to try use real examples of working code and attempt to modify it to your needs

> What is your go to source for Excel content and why?

* /r/Excel because I trust the experience from real people here and can ask specific questions. Otherwise, Google usually does the job.
>What do you know about VBA and why do you want to learn it?

Know how to automate most stuff by now, that's mostly what I've needed it for. Learning more about how to do things "better" as I get to work on more things where the initial ways of doing things fail. 

>If you've tried learning VBA, what did you struggle with the most?

I didn't know how to program, or any of the concepts really. I started out macro recording and making some unholy combination of macro recorder + big-ass-sheeets. But I didn't know how to make a for-loop, or how to adjust the code I used very much. Once I started getting a hang of those basic programming things, applying them in VBA was a question of googling. 

>What resources have you used, if any, to try and learn VBA?

I didn't, I worked through an introductory python course and took a class in R. Those covered most of the basic concepts also used in VBA, and then I recently started learning more about classes specifically for VBA. resources for VBA in general  MSDN, google + various guides here and elsewhere, and of course just asking for help. 

>What is your go to source for Excel content and why?

Google + The sidebar ;)
Awesome, thanks! What were some of the hardest concepts to grasp when you were first learning?
Thanks! Was it the concept of the object model or just the myriad of different capabilities that each object has to use?
Excel VBA Programming for dummies is a really good text. I recommend it. 
At first, I had trouble figuring out arrays and data structures. Once I had those nailed, it took a bit more time to grasp classes, and the beginnings of OOP and how VBA related to it (sort of).
More of knowing what I wanted to do but not knowing the Object Model to do it.

I still have this problem. I think this is one of those things that comes with experience. I remember learning Excel for the first time and I knew what I needed to do but I didn't know which functions to use
