Need help describing my Excel proficiency in a concise way on my resume
Something something Dunning Kruger, welcome to the business world
I'd address this in a projects section and the kind of spreadsheets you created.  "Advanced Excel".  FP&A. Balance Sheets and Income Statements.  EBITDA and IRR calculations.  Statistical Modeling and Simulations with R integration.  Derisking models.  VBA.  Curve Fitting.  Forecasting using (*).  Data Cleansing and Integration.  GIS integration with Google Earth.  Mail Merge.  Populating and delivering spreadsheets from templates using Web Services.  Build PowerPivot models as the basis of SQL Server Analysis Tabular Models.  Hyperbolic Decline curve modeling using ARPS equations.  Use of various COM and .NET libraries.  PDF Form generation.  Rolling your own COM and HTML5 and Javascript add-ins.  That sort of thing.
Say you are excellent at excel

jokes aside, just say you know it proficiently (vlookups and pivot tables) and have basic knowledge of macros/vba
I would hire someone if they said something like "I'm proficient at university level excel (vba, macro, vlookup, pivot tables, array formulas). I know that hands on experience in real instances, real data, real companies with real exceptions is a lot more challenging. I'm confident that I will grow my mastery at excel and I will prove to be valuable if I'm given the chance." Show experience, show awareness, show initiative.

There's not any room in your resume for that. Perhaps the cover sheet. There's really not any way to make a resume stand out in terms of excel language. 

Not to be all meta but don't over think this. Don't think of the interview as the only obstacle to a great career. Don't put it on a pedestal. 

Think of the job experiences you will encounter that will leave you to make career decisions. 

Good luck.
Just put Excel BAMF. 
☺
I usually put "advanced excel skills" and a few extra things: VBA, pivot tables,  userforms etc
I'd agree with the other comments of being honest and sticking to what you know. I expect anyone who's just out of business school to know little to know "advanced excel" skills. Professing "mastery" of anything right out if school looks silly. My humble opinion.
I put "known as the excel guy in my office". Which will put them in mind of their own current excel guy. So regardless of any actual skill level, they will assume you are at least on par with the best excel user in their office. 
Colleagues all put expert in Excel on their CV but still have to call me when they can't figure out a simple index match.
Learn vba properly first before saying that you are proficient in excel
If you say master in excel, be ready to provide a certificate which identifies this claim as fact not your perception. Or you'll look like you over showcase your skill set 
:(
You just dropped my Excel skills down a point and a half.

Second this, listing even a few key recognizable and useful applications in my opinion has more appeal than just the functions of the software.
Agree with listing key functions to give perspective.  Also be prepared to describe prior experience using them.  Good luck!
That's quite a bit beyond what "proficient" means.. especially from the average employer perspective.

There are people who don't know what an IF statement is but they can do their job for what little/much they use excel. Should the OP call himself non-proficient because he's not a VBA master, while thousands of people call themselves intermediate without knowing how to do a Vlookup without youtubing it?
Agreed! Know the high-level pros and cons to using indirect, vlookups, sumifs and pivottables. Casually mention using pivottables makes your files smaller and data queries much quicker. 
It makes your files smaller??
If you choose to not save the information in your workbook upon close, the data queries definitely can make your file smaller as it's not really having to store information.  I see far too many people use Excel as some sort of database to house information, when they should think of it more as a GUI/analyzation tool.
