Returning values based on two drop down lists. Not sure which formula or setup is right.
Have you considered just making your range an Excel Table and adding slicers to it? 
Ideally, rather than having your date be a text, can you just type in a number/date? Then, your downstream analysis will be much easier, and PivotTable can naturally group by month/quarter/year.

If you don't want to "see" the whole date, could format cell with number format of `mmmm`
Throw up the workbook.
Here:

https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B7cXs2aNxDC8QnNNM253VGFQR0U/view?usp=sharing

The detail list is where you plug in the information you want to. Currently I just used randbetween() for sample numbers.

I changed the unit number association from an IF statement to a cleaner vlookup on the page called 'ANNUAL'. The data on the annual page is populated from the detail list and the double dropdown for the index/match/match pulls off the data on the same annual page. To solve your pressing 'too many clicks' issue - I cheated by adding a 13th column and calling that 'Total'.

I believe this does what you need. Also, the way you setup the 'Expense Reports' section is kind of goofy - but that is more work to fix and is more stylistic than anything.
I am somewhat of a novice, so I have no idea what that means sorry.

I used an Index, match function to figure this problem out however. Thank you for the help!

Thank you for this, but that's actually not what I need, I don't need the totals, but rather i need to multiple a single month by 12 and then divided by the amount of units for that property. When I say that I am clicking too many times I mean that I need to run 60 individual calculations to get that number. I was wondering if there was anyway to do all 60 calculations at once or as I put them in one by one in the detail list. 

Edit: also when you say the expense reports are goofy, can you elaborate on why? Is it just stylistic? I was just trying to get the formulas first and then I'd clean it up later but any advice would be appreciated 
Select the table, press control-T. 

Go to Table Design, insert slicer, select fields you want. 

You should get a pop up box to filter your table. 
I second this. Slicers are great and can be intimidating but they are surprisingly easy
Ok I will check that out tomorrow at work and report back, cheers 
