[Video] Writing a HTTP Request Macro
Some people instagram their appetizers. Epicmindwarp vidoes his coding sessions. 
The voice of an angel. 
This is the longest Reddit video I've ever watched. It was fascinating. I like watching other people code because I pick up small things.

Where did you get the HTTP Request function? Did you write it? If so how'd you figure that out? I'd be pretty interested in that.

I would also point out that people should not comment their work code. If they do, then others might understand it and you can't leverage it for big raises.
She's moderately happily married. Fortunately she runs her own small business and needs excel help, if you know what I mean. :-)
I just copy paste/import the libraries I already have created/onhand :[

It's not an entertaining process to watch.
good job its not an embarrassment at all. This  just shows somebody like me another way to use macros, keep up the good work.
Gotta do something on a Friday night, ya know. 
Daaaaaaaaaw, you cutey. 
The HTTP request macro I had on hand from a previous script. 

I Google that tbh, not very interesting, unless you want to watch me Google... 

Being able to explain the code however is more important. 
Wow, you must just love open source.

I would like to point out that some of us believe that you can get big raises by teaching others and enabling people to learn. What you're advocating might get you a couple raises but you'll always just be that code monkey and you'll hit a ceiling.

If you were hired as a dev on my team with that attitude you wouldn't last a week. I wouldn't tolerate it.

I don't think you need to obsessively comment because good code should be readable to anyone with a basic grasp on the language but a few comments to identify key steps or unusual code are worthwhile.
This comment made no sense to me until I read every other post here. 
The video isn't entertaining? 
I assume op was being sarcastic.  Of course you should always make your code as maintainable as possible, including comments, descriptive variable/function names, etc.  Not only is it good practice, someday you may have to fix/enhance your own old code!  
It was a joke...
Oops. Replied to the wrong person. Clicking buttons on mobile is tough.
ARE YOU NOT ENTERTAINED? 
Sorry, I've worked some people who were very much in that mindset and it's infuriating.
No it's cool. My wife told me I should have put a smiley face or something. Sorry for the confusion.
Your wife sounds pretty chill. Is she single?
