Starting a large project for Fire Emblem, with over a dozen games and almost 1000 characters. How best to structure my database?
It's a safe bet to say that you would want to keep your characters and items separate. Only combining them when needing specific stats. I'm not sure where you would need thousands of tables for characters alone though. I would think 1 would be enough per character.
Hate to be that guy, but excel is not a database use SQLite please
I started learning the basics the same way except for it was Eve.  Good way to start
Oh, yeah, I meant one per character, in a similar format to the first image, just maybe with a couple of extra sections.  Sounds like an interesting challenge tho.
Haha, if I didn't know excel wasn't a database then what makes you think I know what SQLite is? :P

I'll have a look though, cheers dude.
Nice one dude, I had a project a couple of years ago with Age of Empires but I was going about things the wrong way. Now from this, I've learned how to do everything I wanted to do in the initial project and more besides :D
I'm not really sure what data you have/need, never having played the game :S Especially with regard to the auto-leveling and stat growth - is that based off of a fixed progression + base stats, or something else? 

In general I'd have one "character" database and put all the characters and their potential classes and progressions in there, then pull out the data relevant for an individual character in your final sheet. 

Then an item database where you pull items from to adjust in individual sheet. 

This seems somewhat similar to your original setup? 


I guess the problem is that I don't really know what I'm asking. One thing is referencing table/column/row with tags instead of vlookup, but in terms of the whole thing I think I'm basically asking "How do I make it so everything is as portable as possible within the document, and not screw myself over when it comes to moving stuff to VBA".
Well, in terms of referencing things with tags, that doesn't really work if you're looking stuff up in a different table, you'll still have to rely on vlookup or indexmatch to "find" stuff. 

Structured references (the bracket'y stuff you get in tables) are good for "pointing" to the table, they automatically grab all rows if you add some, and formulas auto-extend within the table, all good stuff, but no automatic look-up. 

I wouldn't really worry about moving stuff to VBA and the related structure too much. Once you have the logic set up in the spreadsheet, and if that is possible to do, then you know what you're going for in VBA and you're free to do it in any number of ways. 

Like maybe you don't want to do vlookups, so you can make a user defined function to use in the spreadsheet being something along the lines of "getstat(stat,class,level,starting_value)". Like that might be neat, but you'll need to figure out what "goes in" that calculation beforehand, and how much of it makes sense to do "in code" and how much of it you want stored in a table somewhere. 

Ideally you can just store your "core" data, and calculate everything in the code. But having calculated it all in the spreadsheet beforehand will make it easier to port over, even if it means doing the work "twice" :P 


When you say moving things to VBA, what exactly do you want to do with your data that warrants VBA? Making calculations easier? (More concise calculations versus using really long formulas?) Auto-solving predictive equations?
Thanks a lot dude, I think that's enough info to see me on my way for a while. I've got most of the math formulas I need, and I'm happy to replicate them for all the characters if it means having a backup, independent table. I just didn't want to do all that copy pasting without it leading towards learning something :)
Basically I'd like to make a companion to the game that you can run, choose the game, get character info, select comparisons, change weapons/classes/stats, and perhaps a basic sort of battle simulator. I've essentially already built the framework in excel, and can so all of these things, but it's clunky and would be really nice packaged. As far as I'm aware, the easiest way to do this is to import spreadsheet data into a VBA app.

I was going to mess around with the instructions [here](http://www.makeuseof.com/tag/simple-app-vba/) and then hopefully learn enough to plan a direction.
Ah okay, well if/when you get started on that, I'd be happy to offer assistance in creating the userform. VBA is relatively easy to work with.
Awesome, thanks mate. I currently have 3 days off, which I'm going to spend consolidating the tables and arduously copy/pasting info from a couple of other games to test how I'm going to address inconsistent formulas/stats within the series. Hopefully I'll be back in touch with you in a couple of days.
