Websites to get paid with your Excel skills?
If you don't mind being paid in sweet sweet clippy points, you can't beat /r/excel.
Teach yourself programming and improve your tech skills to increase your value, make a personal project that is work related and blow your management away, then get a raise or find a new job with higher salary.
I gave this some effort over last summer. At that time I found out that the quality of advice on here and other sites for free is too high to meaningfully make any money from it. Whatever you do for a fee, someone will do something *almost* as good for free. I found there isn't a price point that makes any sense.

Not saying "don't try" of course. If you do succeed, I'd love to read about it on here.
Fiverrr is the first thing that comes to mind but anything  IT related  is *mostly* dominated by middle eastern folks with a stellar reputation so you'll have a hard time finding clients. Who knows though, you may have something to offer they don't. They probably get used to making a killing doing college homework they could do in their sleep. I knew I was making progress with my own skills when I got lazy with a complicated VBA project and decided to hit up Fiverrr and make some offers. Every single person was like "nah no time to fuck with that." Ended up powering through and figuring it out myself. So it's worth a try like I said, you may be able to offer something nobody else is 
If you feel this is where your skills lie get a job the field and get a pay rise so you don't need to worry about 2 jobs. 
Create an online portfolio of projects that showcase not only excel skills, but subject matter expertise as well. 
>Decent VBA coding skills


If you have extra time, make this into "advanced VBA coding skills". Or learn C# and start making apps. I'd say Excel skills alone isn't enough for freelancing to be worthwhile. 
The competition for the clippy points is just too intense
I love my chippy point. :D

If I were to blow my management away, they'd just expect me to do the extra work for the same pay.  
This ^ I am exactly doing this...just google 'automate the boring stuff with python' for examle ;)
What do you recommend as the best way to teach yourself programming?  
south asian ex freelancer here. unless OP have advance level skills and portfolio to show for his work, I would not recommend getting into online market places. excel freelancers here do not have advance level functional skills,  but they do have patience. they will first do a google search on how to do the job, then if they find it to be too complicated then they will simply manually do the job regardless how much time it will take. I don't think excel alone is a good expertise unless op is satisfied with $3-$5 an hour.
I'm not really doing this because i really NEED it. My current job revolves around Excel and i my salary is good for me. I love excel and i have lots of free time during the weekend, so instead of playing mobile apps i just want to use it to help people and get paid.
You think C# is better to learn than Python?
Very hard to beat anyone to an answer. Some seriously dedicated people.
The fact that I'm replying to your 6 hour old comment probably has something to do with why I also only have one clippy point.
Learning by doing. Do a personal project by work on your idea. Do in small steps, piece by piece and you will have something working at some point.
I do excel consulting and i charge $150/hr.  All of my clients are large corporations....average job is ~$10k.  They all found me through word of mouth or my website.  It is a tough nut to crack...I avoid online marketplaces with a 10-ft pole
I guess i can say i have advanced excel skills. I have automated a lot of things and i had so many Excel VBA related projects in the office, so there's that.
"Better" is relative. However, I know C# is a good investment as demand for the language will continue to grow. It has a good outlook. It also has other advantages that you can discover with your own research. You already know some VBA, why not make a long term goal to master the .NET framework? Just throwing ideas out there, but maybe even dabble in both and see which one you like better? Especially if you want to go freelance, its nice to be able to relate to programmers of different backgrounds. 
More than one ClippyPoint may be awarded per post. We certainly don't want to dissuade anyone from adding to a thread and in fact, we encourage it.
It's not the size of your clippy point stack that matters...
Can we see your site?
Though i am a noob, so take my advice with a grain of salt. I will recommend what other professionals have recommended me to do:

1. go to fiverr.com or upwork.com or any marketplace and check out the portfolios of top earners. Try to get an idea of how much they earn, and what  the skills they have.
2. make a portfolio as detailed as you can.
3. start working on contracts and develop relationships with your client. because eventually you have to move out of the marketplace and have your clients.
4. create a portfolio website for your consultancy work, and try to promote it.

when starting out you might have start at dirt cheap rates on the marketplaces. your main goal should be establishing your own consultancy business. there are subreddits dedicated for jobs like this, so check them out too.
Oh i know, some people are just fast :)
Hey guys, what's going on? 

Edit: jokes gonna fail.  Forgot I got a second clippy point that time back.
Www.lucastechnical.com 

I haven't updated it in a while...I don't rely on it for lead generation anymore, most of my work is repeat clients...so it's not full of awesome case studies or anything 
