Data Analyst Salary - Update
Life is too short to stay at a job where you're not happy. Good call and congrats.
Congrats!  I'm always happy to see a success story. 
I have two questions, I hope you don't mind answering:  
  
1.  What market/general region are you in?
  
2.  How much of your initial job (prior to promotion) was coding?  I have 10+ years of experience in data analysis and am currently working toward a master's, but I'm trying to get a feel for how much I should focus on coding, which I don't love...
> now making $88,000 

That's like £70k.

I'm in the wrong fucking country I swear.

Good work mate!
I'm in the exact opposite of where you were. I love what I'm doing but I'm willing to do something I don't like if it means I get a better deal than $12,000 annually before deductions. :(

Nonetheless, I'm happy one of us is at least living his dream! Congrats!
What's up with the odd bot posts at the bottom of this thread?
This is very similar to my story as well.  I was doing Business Intelligence for a call center.  The hours were very long, and there wasnt enough hours in a week to get everything completed.  I moved out of the Call Center industry to something completely different and love it so far. I actually work around 40 hours, pay is about 10K more,  and the best part of it all is I work from home 100% of the time.  
That's awesome dude!! I've actually been preaching analytics at my current job in order to push our ability to make good decisions supported by data. Engineering analytics is super fun too. Performance curves, reliability engineering/reliability centres maintenance, infrastructure asset management, and capital asset planning optimization are all on our radar. 

What tool would you recommend for showing your insights to executive level managers?
What are some of things you're doing in your role? 
Congrats! It's nice to hear someone who likes what they do.
Sorry for the late response, but I was thinking of trying to teach myself the stuff you said you wanted to in your previous post. Do you have any tips or resources that you found particularly helpful? 
Good on you!  I left my career as a structural engineer over a year ago (been unemployed since, due to a couple of family situations arising).  Once I tried getting back out there, I knew I didn't want to get back into engineering consulting, so I looked at getting into a data analyst or technical writing gig.  I never really got much traction there, but I'm expecting an offer for more of a permitting/planning role with a government agency that will make use of some of my engineering background!  So yay to us for not sticking with something we hated doing!
Contemplating a similar move and have an initial phone screen this week :)

Congrats! Great to read that you're move worked out so well for you.
Wells done! What do you do daily now? 
solution verified
Thanks so much!  Yes, looking back I cant believe I was actually ever considering staying just for money.  Would have been a huge regret and I am glad I took the leap of faith and just went for it.
Not a problem at all. I am in a low COL city in the Mid-West in the United States. 

While doing the chemical engineering/consulting sales I did not code at all. I never took a coding class in college either. I, quite honestly, over exaggerated my coding experience when I interviewed (I don't think I would have gotten the job otherwise) and the 2-3 weeks before starting I did nothing but read SQL books. 

Personally, I feel like coding is a absolute must have skill for any type of data analyst. Being extremely fluent and advanced in SQL is standard. Then I look for a good ETL background whether it's Informatica or SSIS. Then I look for things like report preparation with Crystal Reports, SSRS, MicroStrategy, etc. 

I think picking up a useful data analysis language like Python or VBA is the next step. These are what separate okay analysts from ones that can do things that blow people's minds. But at the basics, it's all SQL. 
Much less likely to get shot or fall into medical bankruptcy though! Just try not to think about Brexit devaluing the pound further.
It depends. You can be in the same country but have a different job title or industry and make 30% less. But if you're happy, great benefits, and union-like job security, who cares? 
I am very much in a good place so thank you!  I think though that you're lucky you have found something you love.  Personally I think that is the hardest possible thing to find.  Now that you have, focus on becoming an absolute expert and someone this is indispensable.  Then the higher paycheck will follow!
Oh wow more money and you get to work from home?!  Sounds like you hit the jackpot man congrats!
I do get to focus on using my engineering background and work in continual process improvement. So everything we touch is around making processes more efficient by utilizing analytics or reporting. 

So for example there might be a team that uses an excel spreadsheet or ancient access DB,  and my team will move it to a web front end and SQL server backend. Or there will be a manual process and we will automate a ETL job to do it. We also do a lot of SSRS dash boarding and will stage the data and then put it on the web so teams can access it in real time. The rest of the time are report requests out of a variety of databases and getting other departments the data they need in a workable format. Lastly there is your standard excel stuff like pivot tables or writing little macros in VBA to automate something small. 

Hope that helps!
Does that mean you don't like what you do...
I added some to the top.  Huge fan of Safari books and Udemy.  Also Reddit forums can be invaluable, people are always willing to help. 
That's awesome man, don't give up no the data analyst/technical writing though!  All it takes is one company to give you a chance.  Meetup.com is also great for networking into industries that you don't have as much experience in. Hope to see a success post from you soon on finding something you love!
get good @ excel and the dollars will follow!
Let us know how it goes!! Good luck!
As ridiculous as it will sound (seeing I have <2 years experience in a analyst role) I now manage an analytics team within a fortune 100.  I performed extremely well and they did not want to lose me so I was fortunate to receive back to back promotions. 

About 50% of my day is dealing with meetings and the like, but I do get to continue doing my own coding/development the other half of the time.
Thanks.  I do a TON with VBA but write almost none of it from scratch.  I find snippets here and there, combining from multiple different sources, to do what I want.

I'm taking a Python class, along with Databases (SQL focus), and then data warehousing, which focuses on ETL.  I'm planning to take R as one of my electives, too.

I plan to look for jobs in the Denver metro area after graduation and all my sources indicate that's a very strong job market for analytics at the moment.  I mostly keyed in on your post because I would like to move into management sometime in the next five years.
I graduate in May with an MS in Data Analytics. 

I'm assuming from your post you use SQL the most? Is there any R, Python, Hadoop, SAS, Weka, or Knime?

In the past year, the program has taught us how to use each of these programs and the more I read on the actual job, the more I realize it is way too excessive and should have been focused down to a few.
How did you state your experience with SQL in your resume? Did you state as proficient or did you just write down SQL under your skills section? 
What was the best way to learn SQL?  Do you use Php or Python? Is STATA useful?
may I ask if there is a huge focus on statistic?! or its more about configuring data in a visual way?!
>  Just try not to think about Brexit devaluing the pound further.

Yeah, but on that salary I reckon Health Insurance shouldn't be bad. No pre-existing conditions and if I can do that for five years and come home I'd be quids fucking in!
Aye, true man. Wouldn't mind making bare cash though.
wow i would love to have your role its like ym dream job!! i ust graduated with a degree in accounting, do you know where i should go from here?! also is there any entry levle job?! is it stressful?! is there a lots of statistic to do?! or its more managing data?! what programming lanage should i start with?! also will I need any certification related to computer?! what i am really interested in, is automating some process that people do everyday, i would love to go around and find things you can make easier withmy knowledge with computers!!
Not enough Excel to do :(
Update on my reply - got the job, super excited :)
Oh god, the meetings never end right?  why can't they just put them in an email.
They clearly see that you have the ability to manage a technical team. That's rare so I don't blame them for wanting to keep you. The meetings can be tough sometimes but that's your time to build your team's reputation.
It depends on what you'll be doing. If its more development, maintaining, reporting then SQL and Python would be huge. I'm more on the adhoc, 'Hey things look off can you tell us whats wrong and why and how to fix it' type projects and rely heavily on R. SQL/PowerPivot combo is extremely powerful especially if you are looking at large datasets. I have a few 200MM+ tables that would have been almost unusable without Excel's Power tools.
Yes we absolutely use SQL the most.  If you really start reading some books I think you'd be shocked at how much you can do with just pure SQL.  For example, I can send automated emails that launch a stored proc, query a DB and save it to a variable, and then attach that file and send it via Outlook all with using 100% SQL and nothing else.  I think it is a much more powerful language than people realize.  But yes, we are starting to use more Python now, for both analysis but also web development.  We have a axillary team that utilizes SAS but we can hardly justify the cost in all honesty. 
On my resume I had listed keywords such as SQL, data analysis, reporting, Python in my skills section.  Because I didn't have any direct experience working with my any these technologies I did not want to be dishonest.  I was very fortunate that my interviewer was not a technical person but rather the director of the department.  This let it be more of a personal/character interview, and not technical which is the only reason I got offered the job.
I am a big fan of Udemy.  I think they offer great content for $10.  But the best thing I ever did was buy myself a Safari Books subscription.  There are an unbelievable number of technical books and you can binge read them. 

I am a fan of picking only a single scripting language.  So personally I think PHP makes a better web dev scripting language while Python makes for a better analytics language; so i've chosen Python for myself. 

STATA/SAS/R/Matlab are all basically the same to me.  Pick one and stick with it.  In my honest opinion, most companies (even fortune 100) still dont have a good understanding of big data.  They purchase licenses of these tools but don't know how to utilize the results to make business decisions. 
Within our specific team we do not utilize statistics frequently.  We focus more on performing ETL, optimizing/automating manual work processes, and reporting.  

So although we do have other teams that focus on heavy statistic resources, my team does not as much. 
>I'd be quids fucking in!

I'm from Canada, and I have no idea what this means.
Holy crap you wouldn't be more right, I have people that will have meetings to discuss the scheduling of another meeting... it's actually insane. Sometimes I wonder how companies even turn a profit when so much of people's time is doing nothing but sitting in a meeting they had no need of really being in. 
I appreciate the kind words! I luckily found a company that values performance way higher than seniority. So there are numerous people on my team that have 7+ years more experience than I do but I am their manager. There are a lot of companies where I would never have had the opportunity to move up like I did so I am extremely lucky and fortunate. But don't let me kid you, I work my absolute ass off!
What do you do with R that you can't do with SQL or Excel, or a SQL/Excel combo?
The reason to move things out of SQL would be to increase portability, such as if you move to a different database, most of the stored procedures and custom SQL would be useless, whereas SQL wrapped in Python would still work. 
Ah makes sense. 
dream job man... how do you get from an accounting degreeto your position?! are most data analyst role like this?!  your job doesnt sound like data analyst, but more like a vba developper, no?!
"Quids in" means to be in an advantageous position.

"Fucking" means sexual intercourse, or alternatively, emphasis.
Ah, means "Doing good on the cash front"
80-20. 20% of the people drive 80% of the profits.
It is all mainly on the Statistics/Visualization side of things. R is just way more powerful and has way more ability than excel does in those areas.   
So just to clarify my degree was in chemical engineering not accounting!  But luckily my team was built as a automation/process improvement/analytics team.

So yes, we often act way more like developers.  We have our own DB, make our own web apps, automate our own jobs.  We are kinda a one-stop IT team which makes it fun as we set our own priorities and our own technology stack. 
Worse. 20% of the activities drive 80% of the productivity, and 20% of that 20% (4%) drives 80% of that 80% (64% of productivity). The 80-20 rule is usually regressive once, and sometimes two or three times in a large enough sample.

E: Talk to your boss about this and see if it's true in your company. It'll blow your mind when it is.
but what skills do i need to acquire to het your job? wherw would you start? what additional study? which langage? what career path? should i go work as a developer or as a financial analyst? or database admin?
