Excel games- Fun interactive ways to master excel and it's features?
ExcelIsFun has follow along worksheets where you can do exercises side-by-side with him. I wouldn't say its a game, but it's more fun than doing it by yourself.
Great question OP, I would love to know this as well, I think it'd be extremely beneficial!
Depends on your hobbies  :) - I started a fantasy football spreadsheet and kept adding more and more features as I thought of them, learning the formulas as I went along. 
I like mathematics, so sometimes when I read or watch a video about an interesting maths concept, I try and see how I can play around with it in Excel.  So I've made Langton's Ant in Excel, Ulam's Spiral, a bunch of Fibonacci and prime-number stuff, Collatz conjecture, and plenty more.  Some with formulas, some with VBA; just whatever I could hack together to make something interesting to explore.
I love podcasts, so I've created a relatively complicated ranking system that takes  my podcast rankings and normalizes them based on the average and standard deviation of my data set.

Basically, I was giving most podcasts around a 7/10, but I'd rather that the scores average 5/10, like on a normal bell curve.

It was a fun task and now I can use it to modify rankings for anything that's capable of being ranked. e.g. movies, tv shows, celebrities, sports teams.
What all is on the spreadsheet? I just got into fantasy football last year and wouldn't mind taking a more 'hands-on' approach to how I rate players.
You should take a look at project euler. It just a bunch of math theory questions and when ever I got bored I would just solve them in VBA. However as they get harder I had to replace VBA with a better/faster language 
It does a lot! It's a dynasty league tracker/analysis type of thing so it keeps track of every player on every team in the league, scrapes the values from an online site, analyzes teams for positional strengths and weaknesses, evaluated trades and finds trades, highlights trade targets, shows a projected starting lineup for each team...and I keep adding stuff as it comes to mind. It started out pretty small but as it grows I learn and add more complex stuff to it. 
yikes that's a lot. How did you get it to scrape a website?
Ehm. I still haven't worked out all the kinks yet, but that info is more important than the method, so I literally select all/copy paste for that one. I've gotten the hang of using power query to scrape other websites though :)
