PSA: some users report Excel security update KB3178690 is breaking macros
First place I looked after I started having problems this morning, I figured it wasn't only me. 

The number of Excel issues I have with updates is going up from *maybe* 1 every two years before the exit of Sinofsky, and has been going steadily up during the Nadella tenure to about 3 a year now. 

You know what I don't want Microsoft? You playing beta games with literally my money, especially when I'm being sold phoned-in updates with a subscription. 



This whole Microsoft update has fucked up a lot of things.  It broke our SharePoint 2013 workflow engine too:
Huge thanks!

Some people might be able to disable the security update through Control Panel -> Programs and Features -> View installed updates.

The problems were occurring for me in normal use - changing simple formulae (direct cell references), inserting and deleting rows, copying and pasting. It would happen most frequently when I had multiple sheets selected (and sometimes when working on just one sheet).

The drawback for me of disabling that update is that now my computer is crashing (bluescreen) when the screensaver tries to come on. I'm not 100% sure that these are related.
Glad you posted and I remembered this thread!  Just had almost this exact problem.  In my user's case, an object/method type error popped up on a very simple line like:  
    
    activecell.offset(0,3).value = "OK" 
or something similar.  Then it crashed.  Uninstalled the KB and it started working again.
You will need to Hide the update by going back to Check For Updates after you've uninstalled the offending KB's, otherwise they'll just be reinstalled again. 

It is also worth noting that for Windows 10, you can't hide updates from Windows Update anymore - you need a separate tool. Should be simple enough to locate and download but the fact that you have to do this is also retarded for systems with the "Pro" nomenclature. 

What makes me really mad is that Microsoft is going down the route of treating everyone like Apple does because that seems like what works,  without seemingly realising that 

a) Microsoft's new shit, and new patches for old shit that was actually stable back in its day, is actually more broken at this point and 

b) The most everyday mission-critical stuff most people do on their Macs is their new music track (that they're often too dumb to back up), pretty picture or a shopping list in their Notes. We do quite a bit more in Windows. 

