To the students using this to get solutions to test problems.
Also **understanding** the "why" behind the solution is pretty damn important too.
Professor here that happens to teach a course using VBA for graduate students. Saying "I don't know" and searching for the answer here are not mutually exclusive. I am happy to give full credit to solutions turned in using properly attributed sources on the Internet, but admitting "I don't know" is an integral part of the learning process and the work world. In 30 years as a professional programmer and analyst I have come to believe that an unwillingness to admit when you do not know something is a trait to be avoided at all costs. 
It is a fine balance though between copying and understanding.


It brings to mind a recent post where a husband had shown his wife how to INDEX MATCH.. but wife did not understand the formula to realise when wrong results were returned for the financial reports for her new role.. Ooops!

I'm 90% in the same boat.

However, the last 10% is when the solution is easily googleable with the terms used in the post. Reddit is one of the best locations for a solution, but it isn't very fast, compared to a straight google/superuser/stack exchange search. I only use it when I'm getting nowhere 
Being that it is impossible to know everything, I consider the skill of knowing how or where to find a solution priceless. That's as close as knowing everything that you'll ever get. There's little you can't find out googling if know where and what to look for, be it Excel, programming, fluid dynamics, geology, you name it.
Weird. In business a "I don't know" is very important thing to know. For everyone involved.
I've learned everything non-VBA excel simply by signing up to do things I didn't know how to do and figuring it out. I've been learning VBA the same way in my free time. I don't have a current use for VBA in my position but I think it'll be good to learn for the future.
Ummm. No. 

Someone saying they don't how to do it is fine. Better than them bullshitting a wrong answer I don't have time to double check. 

The best answer is "I don't know, let me get on that". 
Correction: The worst response would be saying they did know how to do that, but actually didn't.
Will you hire me? T_T
the strongest skill that most millennials poses is internet research skills and the ability to "crowd source" answers. 

I work with older people who always have to go "ask a friend" where as I automatically Google something, but it is not just googling...it is knowing what to google and how to search. That is a skill that, if you are in your 40-50s, might not have honed. 

It is funny to sit around around a lunch table and debate facts, when we all have phones to look those facts up. 
That's not what this community is for, sir. Namely it's not "your industry". Whoever you are; you are not the be all and end all. People will gladly share their knowledge with people who wish to learn but there are individuals who want their homework done for them. If you're as knowledgeable as you think you are you'd distinguish interest from laziness.
Basically you're looking for "I don't know, but let me find out"
Yeah, that's good. what I was trying to say would have been better said as, " I can't do that because I don't know." That infuriates me. Find the answer.
Excel works a lot like math in general I think. The problem arises when you do the thing once, then don't get or make the opportunity to do it again and again until that first rote learning becomes memorization and eventually real understanding. So no, there's nothing wrong with asking for that answer, but you also need to use it and use it again until it's part of your mind, else it's all gonna evaporate by the time you hit the job market.


I use this sub when I have a tricky problem, but I see a LOT of posts where putting the subject into Google would get me the right result on the first link.
This was basically my mantra for my first year as an analyst. After that, I would say "effectively anything can be done, but I may not immediately know how to do it, pitch it, and I'll tell you how long it will take me to learn how to do it". No use in pretending you can do things you can't, having an openness about this just shapes expectations, and often makes projects more collaborations than tasks. 
[Found the post](https://www.reddit.com/r/excel/comments/5xcne4/the_case_for_index_match_over_vlookup_dont_lose/) - just simply wife did not understand enough to verify results.  Not having coded the formula there was no understanding of the implication of moving columns.
There are times where I know I could probably google my problems, but I'm not sure how to word my problem properly to get my the results I want, and what I try gives me solutions that are unrelated. Times like that I turn to reddit.
As both an IT professional and the IT guy to every family member as well as their friends, I want to highlight the problem we can create trying to help our people with solutions they don't understand and can't support.  To many times I think of a cool new way that will make their lives easier, only to realize that the first time they need to change their world my solution breaks. 

I remember talking my dad into having two user accounts on his computer, one for everyday, the other for admin privileges.  I was visiting him in California and I'm in Texas.  He forgot about the admin account and he couldn't install something. Here took that computer to best buy and had the geek squad reinstall windows.  Thank goodness I had set him up with crash plan (my account/my passwords) and could get his data back on.
Google-Fu is a fundamental component of learning advanced Excel techniques.
It's frankly amazing how many people have put so much effort into putting high quality learning materials out there. 

Also, don't forget that Microsoft has its own support community with dedicated experienced users willing to answer thorny questions. I had cause to use that a while ago and won't forget it again.
