Why is it so counter-intuitive to make a graph or chart in Excel?
Yes it is like pluggin in a usb cable. You get it reversed 2 times before getting it right.
Pivot charts, man. Pivot charts.


For xy charts, it'll interpret your two columns as one series.  
A series is made up of a number of data points.  
The x values in column one, the y values in column 2.  
Each row represents a data point.  
If you draw a line between the dots, the line will be drawn in the order of rows in the input columns.

Different charts have different standard interpretations of data you feed them, but if you're doing something tricky, drop the auto-generated chart, and Instead go to select data, and add each series manually.

Check out peltiertech for walkthroughs of different chart types.


The thing that has saved me is that whenever I want to create a chart or graph, I always start off by inserting a chart without having selected any data beforehand rather than highlighting a table or set of data and hoping that it's in the proper structure and Excel will generate the chart correctly. After you generate a blank chart, you just go to select data and add your own data series. It makes it much easier especially if your doing a bunch of rough work and your data is all over the place and no need to worry about making sure your data is in the appropriate columns/rows.
I just make a pivot table and then a pivot chart. Watched one tutorial and it actually changed the pace of my career.
It was great before they overhauled the interface in ~2005.   

Yes, you may be able to get a graph faster with the current interface, but getting the graph you want is a lot more difficult. 
That's why you use tableau
Flair changed to discussion.

Yeah, it's so annoying that you'll never see me posting in a thread to do with a graph or a chart on here, simply because I don't know how they work half the time.
Tru
[deleted]
We got the think-cell addin and will never look back, surprised excel hasn't taken some lessons from them
I thought I was alone!
Fucking charts man!



Excel wasn't build for charts but all my C-suite guys want is Excel-based Charts.




We're trying to start moving them to real visualization software, and it's working well, but just yesterday I got a request from a C-Suite exec: "I tried making this chart in Excel for presentation to a client at the end of the month but it looks so unprofessional. Can you help make it pretty? Plus it's a [effing] PivotChart."




FFS...grr!
yeh!! how does that even work! my experience exactly.
Pro Tip: Put a Liquid Paper dot on the "top" of the cable plug, next time it's plugged in. Then you can SEE which side to hold up when inserting.
[I don't like them very much, but they work](https://media.giphy.com/media/GZLf5Njk1KGwU/giphy.gif)
Not a fan of pivot charts, they're easy to make but difficult to modify and you can't make multiple charts from a single table 
except you can't add columns to pivot charts, so you end up fucking up with dynamic ranges when you have your formula columns sequentially after the pivots.
XY plots have never really confused me... select columns, insert scatter plot... profit?
Yep this is the only way to graph. Set your own name, array, axis labels, in the end it is faster than hoping for excel to make sense of the data
[MFW I read such an excellent comment](http://vignette4.wikia.nocookie.net/lotr/images/2/28/Tom_Bombadil_2.jpg/revision/latest/scale-to-width-down/640?cb=20150217074233&path-prefix=de)
Which tutorial 
I've recently been using a lot of 3D surface plots and you can catch on to how they work fairly quickly. Mind you, I spend a lot of my excel time graphing data.
idk, tbh I think it's usually all right as soon as you kill all the automatic gridlines and borders and shit, and apply corporate color scheme. of course you are limited to what you can do in terms charting options (depending on how creative you get), but looks-wise I think newer versions of office + a bit of tweaking and it comes out quite all right. 
Are you using R to visualize the data sets now or some other software?
the side of your plug with USB icon is up, rub your plug before you stick it in for a higher success rate.
I know what you mean. 

I like them mainly because it makes it easier for me to show other people. I do a lot of reports for various areas of our business, and various people with differing technical skills. Sticking a quick pivot chart and showing them how to quickly manipulate it is such a life saver.
Can't do scatter plots though
Dont remember actually. Something to do with making a live dashboard with pivot tables.
We're using Qlik not R.
Not all plugs have icon and also some lovely engineers decide to flip the ports on devices they make. 
That's what she said. Didn't work.
Also, most plugs have a sheet of metal wrapped around the plug. The seam is the down side on every plug I've seen. Helps for plugs that the picture rubbed off. 
keyword being "higher" :P 
There are also those that put logos on both sides... there are also devices that have the ports upside down on the female ends... lots of neat combinations out there, but nothing will be as difficult as getting the hdmi ports in one of the old tvs I had... you had to reach around blind... and you could never find them... 
I always think 'eyes up' since the side that goes up is darker like.. soulless eyes. 

This probably makes no sense.
