How to advance further in my excel knowledge
So while this question is about Excel, the core of it really seems to be about career. 

1st: Best way to learn Excel is to give yourself a project that you want to complete but don't know all of the steps required to finish it. Through the research that you do and the trial and error, you will master new Excel tools that are more relevant to you because you are defining the project. No one else can tell you what you should learn first since it's going to be dependent on the types of things that you need to accomplish.

2nd: If your career is very Excel dependent, understand that there are really 2 types of reasons companies hire people to work with excel. Building and Maintaining. Building new spreadsheets and tools can be challenging and varied. Maintaining existing spreadsheets is by definition repetitive. If you want a career change while still leveraging Excel, consider building new Excel tools (VBA is helpful but may not be necessary) so that you can show your current employer or future employer what you are capable of.
Anything that has rules can be automated. Combine that with google, and see how much you can automate. Try to make a master sheet of all of the things you do, and get a macro to open and run each sheet. That will force you to learn a lot more excel!
Find a mentor - not someone necessarily to teach and sit with you but someone whose workbooks you can tear through, find out why they do things that way and ask questions.
Learn a programming language like python
Follow tutorials and always improve them by yourself, Follow the forums, try to choose different problems: http://chandoo.org/wp/advanced-excel-skills/ 
Yes. Starting looking up programming with VBA videos. Learn about subs and functions, modules and classes, adding libraries (references), browser automation, and HTTP calls. This is your best chance at gaining enough experience to put this kind of skill on a resume. 
Please see our [Where to Learn Excel & Advice Megathread](https://www.reddit.com/r/excel/comments/2e28s3/rexcel_advice_thread_repository/) for this often asked question.
Well 

- Power query

- Power Pivot

- Power BI

A really nice way to force yourself to learn shit is to sit around answering quetions on /r/excel 
+1 - visit Excel websites that offer template downloads and rip them apart.
