Moving from analyst to consultant
Might want to check out Chandoo's site, he did exactly what you described and now runs a very successful website/consulting business:

http://chandoo.org/wp/2010/04/26/phd-startup-story/

http://startupdesi.com/
I would stay with your employer as you start doing consulting work to see if you enjoy it. I started doing some consulting and I HATED it. I will say that 95% of consulting is finding the work and the other 5% is often times convincing clients to stay the hell out of your way and trust you judgment. The most money is obviously in VBA and or emulating database technologies so ensure that they also have the proper technology investment - trying to turn Excel 2007 into a thoroughbred may not be worth the effort.
Yes. Build up a client list of people more loyal to you than to your employer.
Are you a CFA? You could work as a competitive intelligence analyst, it's a bit more fun, the skill sets are similar. It's not what you asked (sorry). It as someone who moved from analysis to insights, it's a way better work life balance and I like the benefits/insurance, etc
Thanks 
Edit: sweet story.. I'm inspired to create. I love the work I do, but I love my home and land more. My commute, work life balance is out of whack. I've been trying to hold out for culture to convert to work from home... (at least I get one day a week wfh). Thanks again
I would also add that when you are consulting people expect results asap (depends on the client). This can become a balancing act with projects and keeping to schedule and budget. Consulting can be just as stressful as working for a regular employer.
This is a super good point.  I've been improving my skill and a great thing about the current employer is I get to take a few classes a year to learn whatever.  I'm okay at VBA and guessed/wondered if thats likely where people would hire an consultant instead of giving it to the shitty entry analyst to build some crap spreadsheet.  I've been thinking the market could be small businesses/entrepreneurs who don't have analyst and use me to gain insight, seems like a shit load of work to get the word out and sell the self (which I hated about being a yoga teacher, sell the self cause self is business).
Make sure you're not violating a non-compete.


Be veeeeeeery careful about this.
What is the CIA's job (great acronym )? 
Not be sorry, glad you did answer.  Can you elaborate?  Whatever comes to mind.  These responses have all been great help.  Tell me about being an intelligence analyst. (not CFA either)
The good news, you can always start small and grow. I do freelance consulting on the side; just not near enough to fully support myself. It's nice while still small to work on setting things up like: hourly rate(s), how to do a quote, billing system, record keeping, taxes, etc.
Do you want to start your own consulting business, or work from home? You can find work from home at corporations also
Its violation if its voluntary
Research competitors, create SWOT analysis, look for opportunities in the numbers. Usually you compile the information and present findings.  Get on Glassdoor.com and look at the job descriptions for CIA, Pricing Analyst, Market insights. There are good opportunities for people that can tell a story w data. Good luck! 
Thanks, lots good things to think about. How do you find time to work (full time), commute, play, exercise, maintain relationships.. and start a business on the side?  Do you sleep?
Hi mate - sorry to join this a bit late but I am curious. How did you actually get into freelance consulting in the first place? Thanks.
Good point.  I have a great job with one day a week work from home.  I'm on the market for something with more than one and or closer to my home, but it may mean taking a pay cut, so I've been trying to hold out to see what comes, if the baby boomer CFO retires, and / or the culture changes enough to get more days at home in my industry.  I guess now that you'd ask I would forego the entrepreneurship route if I could have a cushy job like my current one w/ more time at home and less on the road to get there. 
For now, I try to block off time. So, outside of regular work/commute, I might set aside a whole evening or part of the weekend to work on things. After awhile, I find I can accomplish a whole lot of what people need in a couple hours. Eventually, yes, you get the bigger projects which can take 4+ hours, but starting off I was doing a lot of things that ultimately only take a couple hours each.

I also enjoy browsing on different forums like this one, answering questions that I can. It's almost like a "speed version", to make sure my problem solving stays sharp, and also lets me see what other experts in the field are doing.

Back to your main question about time, I'd say weekends are probably your best bet for when you start having 5+ hours a week you want to dedicate. I could see then moving to a couple hours each evening. Eventually, when you feel like you've got enough work lined up in queue, and you're close to making what you make at the day job (depending on your current pay, this could vary greatly in how many consulting hours you need), I think you'd be ready to make the jump to full time consultant.

Anyway, that's my two cents. :)
It started off with somone contacting me via one of the forums I frequently used. I had never thought before that I was "good enough" to actually be paid to work on XL, but someone had seen my work and wanted my help. I did several small jobs with that particular person, which helped me build up my skills in scoping the work and how to estimate things. I also learned (later) that I was **way undercharging** for what I was doing, lol. Those initial jobs were $20/hr. But, I did learn a lot.

Later, I started buillding a more seamless T&C page that I could reply to people who contacted me about work. I don't do a lot of advertising, but I've found simply including some contact info in my profile/signature of XL forums can help. People will be searching for something, see my name, and contact me. I've thought about doing more on social sites (LinkedIn, Facebook, etc.), but I haven't made that step yet, mostly due to I haven't made the time.

Hope that helps!
Cool thanks.  I like reading two cents. :)
