When putting Microsoft Excel as a skill on your resume, what skill level would you put, and what would you say are the qualifiers for that skill level?
In my opinion, using your definitions:

Beginner -- basic formulas, formatting, and chats   
Intermediate -- advanced formulas, vlookups, pivot tables   
Advanced -- complex spreadsheet design, basic VBA knowledge    
Master -- Thorough VBA knowledge, ability to interface Excel with other software      

Personally I just like "Proficient" which is intentionally vague but really says "I can do whatever the job requires in Excel"
You would probably be better served to describe the kinds of problems you solve or solutions you have developed with your skill level. That will separate you from most other resumes.
Honestly?

I've had a lot of office jobs doing what would be considered *a lot* in Excel.

95% of the time, if you can do vlookups and pivot tables, management thinks you're a *god* in Excel, despite that being really, *really* easy to do.

The *vast majority* of corporate America that I've seen (not speaking for the world) extremely overestimates the complexity of Office programs.

If you can make spreadsheets and actually do things with the data? Mark expert.
My husband taught me this trick since he did some HR work when he was military.  List your level (I.e advanced) along with examples of the functions under a key skills section at the top of your resume.  On my resume I list logical statements (IF, AND, OR), lookups, and pivot tables.  Now it stands out to a hiring manager instantly, and the specific functions will be picked up by keyword searches in candidate databases.

Edit: if you want to top off your advanced Excel skills, I highly recommend "Financial Analysis with Microsoft Excel" by Mayes and Shank as a reference.
From a local college's site, they've got a simple survey that might help

http://iws.collin.edu/cesyllabus/cesyl_ct/ComputerTechnology-89s.htm
The icaew has a reasonable grading i think:

www.icaew.com/en/technical/information-technology/excel/spreadsheet-competency-framework

It may not transfer to what employers are used to seeing. But replace creator with super user, and grade the two others from basic to advanced, keep developer as developer, and that's what I'd use. 

I'm often very impressed by the knowledge of people on line. But I've literally *never* worked with anyone who knew half as much as I do. On pancak3d's ranking, I'm advanced (although oddly I never really use pivot tables).

But the general use of Excel is so nakedly clueless that I consider anyone who can use vlookup, "Advanced" (sadly). I once saw a colleague adding up a column of numbers on an Excel spreadsheet... on his desk calculator.

So in my estimation I'd modify it as follows:

Beginner: Formatting and charts. Can use sum() formula.
Intermediate: Can use several formulas, and is able to use excel for time-saving applications
Advanced: Can use more complex formulae, including vlookup. Can use pivot tables. Appreciates the difference between data and reporting.
Wizard: Can use some VBA. Can use index/match. Can build dashboards, and automate processes.
Master: Thorough VBA knowledge, ability to interface Excel with other software
Advanced, as I can program complex macros.

Complex in the sense, that normally no one in the companies I worked at knew anything about how to create them.
Wizard. Skills in order of difficulty- array formulas, somewhat advanced VBA, Power Query, Power Pivot, Power BI. Once you've made a project that uses all of the above listed together I think you can call yourself a wizard. I look back on some of my projects and can't help but ask myself "how the hell did you pull that off?"
I prefer proficient in excel with fair or good knowledge in power query or VBA
Proficient sounds nice. I guess it depends on which industry you work in, and that its relative to the people in that industry. I work in construction in the project controls department. Most people I've met have a very basic knowledge. Only one person I've worked with had a Mastery of it (the way you described it). 
I agree with your lvls but I don't like proficient. I think people can take that as meaning as 'good enough' which doesn't sound the best.
Solution Verified
This is good advice. I consider myself to be intermediate skill level, because I know what advanced and master level skill looks like. On the self-assessment, linked elsewhere in this thread, I'm "Advanced."

Relative terms are useless, in my opinion. They are entirely subjective. I have always been "the excel guru" at my office because my boss, other managers, etc have no reference point. Since I've been "the excel guru," my skills have increased tenfold with exactly zero increase in my perceived skills among the aforementioned. I can see someone in my situation, who is unaware of the true depth of Excel usership, self-identifying as expert or beyond, simply in comparison to peers. 


This is *sadly very true*. I'd rate myself a beginner to intermediate, my cousin said she was advanced and the 'go-to' person because she'd just learned how to do vlookups... I asked if she could do counts/if statements, etc.  "no".

She's in finance - it boggles my mind.
This.  The managers I support think I'm amazing with Excel because I can expand a pivot table's details.  But to me it's just Tuesday.
That's how I use it, proficient is above basic and below advanced, like "I can do this all right"

edit: particularly because of the vagueness, it's something I wouldn't put on a CV unless it's because vagueness is better than the alternative :P 
Perhaps, though the definition of proficiency:

> a high degree of competence or skill; expertise.

You have awarded one point to _pancak3d_.    
[^Find ^out ^more ^here.](https://www.reddit.com/r/excel/wiki/clippy)

Yeah, I see this a lot. People with a small amount of knowledge tend to over-rate their abilities, because they have no idea about just how much they don't know!

And not just when it comes to Excel :)
In a few finance roles you pretty much get everything spoon-fed from Bloomberg so there's not much need for excel skills
Oh yeah I agree, just saying that is how some people see it
Of course, this is universal. 

I sometimes give an excel skills test to candidates who rate themselves as "advanced" -  a worksheet with the following text in A1: "If you can see this, well done."

The sheet is set up to toggle its visibility to very hidden. 

It's funny to watch them get so utterly confused when they select the "advanced" skills test and it disappears. 
