Question for all of you masters of excel - does your job require excel or do you utilize it on your volition?
My department runs on Excel.

My company's entire valuation is done on excel (in the hundreds of billions).

I'm 1 of 3 Excel masters in the business. It was a prerequisite, but if you can do VLOOKUPS and SUMS, it's enough to get a job in all honesty.

I do data anlaysis for a large financial company.

The problem I find is, those who don't know, never ask for it.

When I told them they could reduce dual-key entry by doing X, Y, Z, they rolled the idea out to everything - but I still had to develop the new innovations because they don't really know much more beyond what they already know.
BB I-bank analyst here, excel is required and they have you do a little test during the interview (kind of easy, vlookups, pivots and little more). I work on excel 75% of my time with word and powerpoint making up the remainder. I myself am the excel guru in the office though (I also deliver training sessions around the company), mostly because I'm the only one in the department that can use VBA and I automatized some stuff that used to require hours and now take five minutes. That gave me a huge visibility beyond my line management but I had also to fight the label of "excel nerd" because it would have been a kind of death sentence in terms of my career. 
Also I use it for personal reasons to keep track of my expenses (one sheet per month with details plus a big recap that I update monthly with the sums per category etc) and to write stupid stuff in VBA when I don't particularly feel like working (when I was a new joiner, now I have very little time to fool around) ie a blackjack simulation, a tool to encrypt written sentences, a task organizer etc - next one is a texas hold 'em probability calculator but I never have time. Excel can be fun taken the right way!
I suppose technically my job does not require it (I run a sales department), but similarly to you I have been designing and incorporating advanced spreadsheets into my tool and tracking arsenal for years. It's hard to imagine efficiently running my department without it.  
  
I've managed to design some pretty nifty sheets and trackers over the years, and most recently I implemented one in particular which I submit regularly (weekly) to my direct boss and HR which streamlined a few payroll processes that everybody was fairly impressed with.  
  
I do have fellow colleagues in similar roles that are not as Excel or even generally technologically-saavy as I am (and to be clear I am a moderate to advanced user at best - hardly an expert), and while they're still able to perform their main duties well enough, their metrics tracking and general departmental awareness leave a lot of room for improvement. You could call me into a meeting with little to no notice and I could pull up a single sheet and tell you anything you want to know about overall departmental performance & ROI, budget progress, forecasting, or drill right down to individual employee performance, ROIs, payroll history, specific account info, yada yada. My colleagues would need at least an hour or more to gather everything they need and probably more time to crunch their numbers.  
  
Frankly I have a hard time understanding how any business manager (or competent employee with reporting duties) can get away with not only not being able to use Excel, but not WANTING to make their lives easier with it.  
  
And everything I've learned has been self-taught over the years with either Google or fellow Excel-hungry colleagues. Or of course, asking questions on this sub.
.
Accountant here, so naturally I use Excel every day, but only basic knowledge is really *required*. You can do everything you need to do with nothing more complicated than SUM (and many of my older colleagues do). 

Of course once I started showing people how much quicker and easier they could do pretty much every Excel-based task most of them were suddenly far more interested, so I did some Excel training using real-world examples to show them how to save time. 

On a personal level I have developed a few sheets just for my own interest/use - one of the more interesting being when I had some downtime at work and set myself a challenge to build a spreadsheet that would act as a defusal guide for the game Keep Talking And Nobody Explodes - with no macros. 
I'm an accountant. I cant imagine how much harder my job would be without it. And my firm does expect everyone to know basics.  
I used Excel as a holder for a lot of data but nothing else... I eventually got bored and started tinkering with the data and ended up automating half my job. Woops!
When I see anyone using a hand held calculator I shake my head.  Never mind the advanced abilities: excel is a convenient calculator. When you enter in a calculator "1+1=" you will not see what you did wrong to get an answer of three.  With excel you can retrace your steps.  And here is the best part in my exp: with any workbook (novice or legendary) you can retrace others footsteps, or math.  But math knowledge (not skills) are vital. Hope it helps 
Engineer, and no, Excel isn't really part of my job. Occasionally updating a project's financials, entering some labor estimates, analyzing a system's log file, or reviewing requirements, but that's about it. 

Like you, I do have a lot of 'personal' use spreadsheets. Budgeting, tax calculators, retirement planning, Roth vs 401k (I'm on personalfinance subreddit a bit), and weirder stuff like how many minutes of sunlight do we gain/lose in certain weeks, or if I buy an EV, what's the total cost of ownership, etc.
I work in debt capital markets and my job has me building a lot of project finance models, which requires one to model debt sizing, cashflow waterfalls, automatically depleting reserve accounts. So yes the knowledge of Excel is vital to my job. 
I can attest that Excel is integral to retail buying offices' operations. Whether passing information internally or back and forth with vendors, Excel is virtually always the preferred platform.  
I work in hospitality, housekeeping to be exact. Definitely wasn't a requirement but one of the reasons I was transferred to my position from front office was because I knew some excel. Housekeeping is an old field that's rapidly starting to evolve, lots of new tracking programs and technology and most of the current management is of the "old school" pencil and paper type. All these programs spit out data (although in some annoying formats). I've basically been Frankenstein-ing reports together from all these different programs to find to metrics to track productivity from an individual to building sections and whole property levels. 

I enjoy it a lot and I've learned a heck of a lot of excel from it. My biggest obstacle is that most everyone I work with is largely computer illiterate. So while I may have put together something very useful, I'm the only one who knows how to update it and filter data which is frustrating. Recently a lot of my work has been trying to dumb down sheets so there's as little tinkering needed or redoing sheets in a way that it isn't too confusing for others (or giving up and protecting entire workbooks and highlighting the cells I specifically left unprotected that are where some of the variables are inputted. 
I do workforce management (call center staffing) and most of us use excel for staff plans among other things. I've learned it all on the job and the biggest item I'd state the most valuable lesson I've learned is how to *minimize* excel use. Reducing VBA and other complex formulas to the minimum possible. People don't comment well explaining what macros do or why a specific formula is used. Making my spreadsheets easy to understand, use and replicicatable has made me well loved in my companies.

i know that there's a LOT more I can learn. I've advanced enough in management to know that while improving the speed through VBA is great, the best people don't stick around (promotion or competition taking them). So I focus on doing the most with the least amount of complexity.
My previous job required around 30% mastery of Excel to be decent. When I was hired I was probably around 20 and ramped up quickly. From there I learned more on my own to make my life easier. 
I needed to know the basics when I was in Uni doing a science degree. Then just used it for my budget and learning bits here and there because it was interesting. When I got into my current job as a School Timetabler it's been a great help to look at the data because Timetabling software sucks on their own hence why all of them have an "export to excel" function. 
Sadly everything runs on Excel. It is just awful. So I use it because I am forced to. Despite being an awful language to work with VBA gave me some kind of safe haven, but the department we cooperate with told us that they have a no macro rule. 

I had to convert all my sheets to formulas. It isn't pretty and I am ashamed to have written such atrocities, but it is what it is and the pay is good.
**tl;dr you have to know the basics to get by, but if you know how to learn and can push yourself beyond that you'll be a superstar pretty quickly.**


I am a financial analyst/accountant and we live in excel. Most of my department however uses pre-made templates that previous employees made for their normal work, and some do ad-hoc type reporting. 

In my job you had to know excel - but as long as you can navigate a workbook and enter basic formulas (sum, vlookup *maybe*, and one or two others) you'll get hired. It makes it a real challenge because it puts the whole department into a "you don't know what you don't know" situation. There are SO MANY THINGS we could do faster and with fewer errors but without knowing if its possible it will never happen.


I've gone on to learn VBA on my own in an effort to create more efficiency at work, apparently this is seen as a bit eccentric since the majority of the department doesn't know how it works. But they do think my files are "magic" and come to me constantly with how-to questions. To the point where the VP's come to me with questions and special requests. 

I'm finding that in order to be really truly successful its less about "knowing how to use the program" and more being able to seek out information when you find a gap in your knowledge. If you can't self-learn you're wasting your time.
Whenever I hear that a department runs on Excel, I get very nervous. Doing a hundred billion dollar valuation in a spreadsheet is madness.

Excel is an awesome analysis tool, but way too many organisations use it to collect, store and transform data. Aggregating large amounts of information in a spreadsheet and then manipulating it highly is a recipe for disaster.

I started out in finance as an Excel guru and ended up eventually transitioning into data science (with a stint as a business analyst in between). In retrospect, some of the stuff I used to kludge together in Excel using formulas and VBA horrifies me.

Excel is an amazing tool - in some ways too amazing. It will let you do a whole lot of stuff that you probably shouldn't, and the more you know about it the more dangerous it gets.

The best thing you can do as an Excel wizard is develop a passing familiarity with databases and other data management tools. You don't have to know how to use all of them, but knowing what else is out there will help you identify when Excel is the best solution to a problem - and when it isn't.
That's very true. I am constantly trying to offer spreadsheet solutions  to various workflows in our office, and they are generally receptive to it, but they had no idea it could be done more easily until I mention it. 

I'm currently in a position where I feel like I could offer some really streamlined workflows with the implementation of spreadsheets, but I feel like I need to be tactful about it as to not overwhelm people who aren't familiar with the software.
How much domain specific knowledge comes into play for your job? That is, do you need a background in finance/accounting/etc?

Working in engineering, I'm pretty sure none of what I do in Excel requires an engineering background.
Can I ask what salary range you get for such a job?
are you sure? i could get a data analyst job with juat beibg good with excel and not finance knowledge or not good at statistic?
And I think that's one of the best ways to learn Excel - finding practical (or at least fun) applications for personal areas of your life that require you to learn how the formulas and conditions work.
Why would the term "excel nerd" be bad for you career wise?

I know my love for excel drives my SO and the only other person in the office who even uses spreadsheets away, but my supervisors are pretty pleased with how much I've been able to streamline these processes.
Oh my god, yes!

I feel like I'm slowly becoming the go to data person, because I'm the only one that can actually pull all of the data and make something useful of it. I've created some of these spreadsheets for departments I was involved in, and then the manager of the department would constantly be asking me how his department was doing, because I was the one who had the data and the charts. 

It's kind of amazing how few people feel put off by excel when you can do some really interesting things with just the simple arithmetic functions alone.
Same dynamic but Im an inventory manager. It's not really a yes or no answer whether Excel is necessary. Our system/network isn't necessary either, in exactly the same way Excel skills isn't. The only thing you HAVE to have is a commitment and someone to make and pull the goods. But Excel saves hundreds of hours and headaches a month.

Honestly no one can see or believe
Excel has the ability to do processing work until you show them how it applies. Otherwise it's just a place to organize data, sum, and multiply to most people. So I keep offering to do traditionally very time consuming tasks one meeting at a time and eventually people get the idea.
When I learned that I can use notepad to replace commas, dashes, or anything else with a tab and paste it back into excel, it was like a magical key that unlocked every shitty data document into a easy to manipulate spreadsheet. It's pretty much the best. (The key is to hit tab in notepad, then highlight and copy it. Then Ctrl + H to replace and paste the tab into the replace with field.)
That's cool! 

I feel like I'm the only one that uses spreadsheets for personal stuff (I assume that's not the case on this sub, but definitely IRL) and I just can't imagine why more people don't use it for their own finances. When my boyfriend and I were planning on moving to a new state, I made a pretty elaborate "calculator" that would help us figure out how much we needed to make if we found housing for x, and how much money he'd need to make if I got the job I was interviewing for and so on. It was so helpful, and we refer back to it every time we are looking at career or housing changes. I can't imagine how we would have figured it out if we were just using a calculator.
You might want to look into userforms (for data entry or other things) and pivot tables with slicers, if you haven't already.

Both are pretty end-user friendly in terms of not having to fiddle around with "the sheet"
Someone once told me that excel's greatest strength and greatest weakness is its flexibility. It's really hard to get people off it. I use SQL, R, and Python in my job along with excel, but I started with excel and I start every project with it. I'm hesitant to show work to people that isn't in excel because it's what everybody knows.
> Doing a hundred billion dollar valuation in a spreadsheet is madness.

Luckily our valuations aren't generated in Excel, but it's all thrown into one at the end.

> Aggregating large amounts of information in a spreadsheet and then manipulating it highly is a recipe for disaster.

Depends who does it, I for one don't have a problem with this approach, although I agree there are better alternatives.

Excel isn't the best solution, I agree, but the big problem we have is it needs to be usable by other people, accessible by auditors, and retrievable by anyone. Throwing it into a SQL database for example is out of the question because:

- You need something dedicated to host it - business won't pay for it
- Someone **will** copy it or save & send the database to someone external, if stored in somewhere like Access
- They always ask for an Excel output because their macros are written around a spreadsheet
- Not many people know SQL in the business

I would love to throw everything into a database, but unfortunately  people are stuck in their ways.
Can you expand on why "Aggregating large amounts of information in a spreadsheet and then manipulating it highly is a recipe for disaster."? What are the pitfalls? Why is it better to do it in other programs, and what are those programs?
The first way is to offer them something that saves them a lot of time. 

I wrote a macro that replaced a 10 minute click-heavy process to a 1 click 10 second solution - that department is now my best friend.

Last week, I gave them a macro that uses SQL to gather data from multiple sources. The only reason they were willing to do it is because they've seen the benefits already and where happy to try something new.
You do need to understand the data in order to identify gaps and generate the missing data. 

For example, how do you explain why there is no duration for perpetual bonds? What's the impact on funds? Is the fund allowed to hold this bond? How does the currency affect it? How does this affect attribution and contribution analysis? 

While it's all Excel and data centric, there had been greater emphasis by the FCA on explaining the data. 
Not OP, but $70,000+ for entry level Business intelligence devs is typical
I'd start with mastering spellcheck.
Yes, absolutely - use it for something you like and/or find an everyday application and you will learn without even noticing it. Also excel is 80% understanding its baseline mechanics and 20% googling the formulas you need.
I agree, I done some silly projects in excel like simulating games mechanics to Ohm's Law. It help me discover several tricks to building a clean and user friendly spreadsheet.
Most people who work in investment banking have good enough Excel skills to do their job (which has a relatively high requirement on Excel proficiency).  In such environment, "Excel nerds" usually refers to people who focus *too much* on Excel and overlook other important skills.  Excel is after all a means to an end. 
And that's frankly 80% of what I rely on. I have the odd formula and lookup referencing data from multiple sheets together, but for the most part I simply make easy to use and read tables that automate all of the calculations I (as a diligent department manager) want to and should be looking at on a daily basis.  
  
What's actually funny is there are some things I've managed to automate so much, it's actually made a large part of my day redundant. I could literally show up to work quite often several hours after my colleagues and still get just as much done with the time I've given myself. And while that's a great place to be in terms of work schedule, I still generally go in on time every day but simply find myself bored for hours at a time some days, so I wander around having an extra smoke break or harassing friendly colleagues lol.  
  
Don't get me wrong, I do try and fill my time productively with other work-related pursuits or research, etc. But it really is crazy when you look at how much time you save with a few carefully planned spreadsheets.
https://support.office.com/en-us/article/Split-text-into-different-columns-with-the-Convert-Text-to-Columns-Wizard-30b14928-5550-41f5-97ca-7a3e9c363ed7
In Excel:

Data > Text to Columns. Delimited. Select the delimiter. Finish. Boom, data in cells.
Great way of putting it.

I love Excel for preliminary analysis, and it's often a good presentation medium. As soon as I find myself doing anything heavy in it though, I start questioning whether it's the right environment.
I do understand where you're coming from, because it's a common problem when dealing with finance types. Unfortunately if you're going to rely on the information for decisionmaking, the need for data integrity really overrides the desire of people for unfettered access. Storing information in Excel is a massive business risk, even if you trust to the abilities of the people using it. There is just too much scope for things to go wrong.

The solution I usually suggest is the construction of an appropriately dimensioned OLAP cube. This allows the data to be maintained within a database whilst providing finance with the ability to slice and dice in Excel to their heart's content.

It's a bit more complicated, but if you can get the buy-in of your IT department it's the best solution by far. Any CIO who won't support getting important business data out of Excel shouldn't be in the job.
https://baselinescenario.com/2013/02/09/the-importance-of-excel/

The fundamental problem is that spreadsheets have virtually no controls around data integrity.

You are better off drawing directly from a database, which is constructed with all sorts of validation and business rules. If the info you need is in multiple databases, set up a robust ETL process using an integration tool like SSIS to construct a dataset prior to bringing it into Excel.

The objective is that, wherever possible, you don't want to be creating and storing important datasets in Excel. Use it for analysis only.
Yup. I automated half my job, wrote very easy instructions and let my boss have a crack at it... She was very impressed but not impressed to even consider me for a bonus so I skipped out!
Ah ok. Way more specific than mine. Most of what I'm doing is setting up klugey versions of databases because we don't have a db admin and I've not been given the time to start up the learning curve. So it's more about structuring data so it's easier to add new data (scalably) and do summaries/calculations/pull reports on whatever characteristics.
But I imagine that would require knowledge of more than just excel?

What's the market like for these staff? Is it a niche position with a lot of positions available in the states?
sorry was on phone
Hah, bingo bongo.
That's interesting. I definitely know I have the tendency to do that, so I try to be aware of it, but luckily for me there doesn't seem to be concern in my company with people being too invested in their spreadsheet skills.
I feel you!

This new position was almost all data entry, and it took the last guy almost a full work day to get it done, and I messed with the mere organization of it all and utilized find and replace and cut the time in half, and then this past week I finally hulked my process out with vlookup and some nested formulas, and now the whole thing could take an hour or so. I feel like I'm slowly automating my way out of job, but luckily, it seems like the company would rather me spend my day streamlining than actually doing this work.

Are your supervisors aware of how much you've been able to bring to your job by setting up these processes?
> OLAP 

The problem is the online part - our infrastructure isn't even owned by us, so anything new has to go through the parent company who have _mahusivley_ underinvested in technology over the years.

It took me 8 weeks of arguing to be upgraded from 4GB to 16GB RAM as per the minimum required spec for a Bloomberg terminal. I had to show their supervisors that my machine was unable to run the terminal and my macros side by side (they blamed the macros), and produce a report that analyses the time/cost lost as a result of a slow machine and whether the cost of an upgraded machine would be re-couped in the time saved.

Needless to say, I went over the top and showed how upgrading me to an i7 with 24GB ram and an SSD would benefit me, and in the end they had to upgrade me.
Automate but don't tell anyone. Use extra time to get more work done and claim bonuses for your extra productivity without your supervisor defining a new base level of output.
Of course, no modern job is a single program position. And there is a good market out there if you can learn some basic sql and be able to manipulate data within excel. Lots of places require 3 years experience for "entry level" positions, which is a bit of a catch 22. C'est la vie
Not that it's bad being very good with excel as it can really make your and your colleagues life easier, also more than half of the documents going to top management are excel sheets so being skilled in formatting in the right way (ie. how you assume they want the sheets to be formatted - also always make them ready to be printed) is a pro, and being savvy with your tools means that you'll be quicker to respond to any unexpected request (which will A) make the seniors happy and B) save you some extra-time). What I meant with "excel nerd" is someone who's seen for being ONLY good at excel and very proud of it, which is kind of weird. Remember that the more you climb the ladder the less you will have to dirty your hands (in this case, making calcs in excel and preparing presentations) so being labelled as the excel guy won't be particularly of help. I do enjoy preparing some clever formula that helps me save some work etc but I do not make a big deal out of it - like, hey this is something I'm good at and I'm glad if I can use my expertise to help, but it's a side skill and not really the primary reason I'm here - look how good I am at other cool stuff. Besides, I'm fairly convinced that when you're very good at something and everyone knows it and you behave as if it weren't a big deal / never talk about it, you definitely improve people's opinion of yourself (as general bottom line, not necessarily excel related).
That's a good question. Considering I am a sales/business development manager, my real contribution lies really in my specialized knowledge and ability to train and coach sales staff and drive results. So the fact that I am also able to develop and pass along valuable data and metrics at the drop of a hat with tools like these may very well be taken for granted in and of itself, but I know that they are appreciative of the results and work I bring to the table in general and from a departmental perspective, including how I choose to present my data. My medium to long term goal is to step into more of a regional director role with the ability to disseminate my processes and implement some of these tools as company standards.
Yeah, understand the real world practicalities. Always bemused me that they can drop $20K+ on a POS Boomburg subscription but won't take basic measures to safeguard their data.

Good luck! Hope you've taken appropriate CYA measures, that shit's an accident waiting to happen.
Bingoooo!

Unfortunately internal and external auditors don't like it when you don't play by the rules. :( 
Yeah I had a case like that, mind you it's just a part time job while studying, but someone from finance came by the dept and was talking to a colleague next to me and dropped a comment like "oh and tjen is working in excel so he's happy" and I was like "uhh yea haha", because I was trying to string together some budget, what else would I be using.

But it was like geez, is this my reputation? I need to start doing more PowerPoint slides!!
haha, I had the same during my internship (in a consulting company). I wouldn't mind that too much, as you said it was a part time thing so who cares. As general line I normally include my comments in the mail I attach my sheets to, like instead of just "find attached the file x" I add some sentence to summarize the data or with my conclusions, it helps the recipient and if you say something that makes sense (even if not 100% accurate) they will remember you for that rather than just for crunching numbers / preparing the slides (on powerpoint I would do as asked if I have strict guidelines but still add my comments ie I think this slide is too red, or the layout is crap and maybe add my idea of how it would be clearer). Of course not every MD likes a low level monkey to speak up, but I find that most of them are actually very nice guys/girls who appreciate pro-active people.
Thanks for the advice, I tend to do that as well and I've worked on some pretty interesting things while I'm here, so I can't complain! 

If anything I constantly find my list of "Oh, I wish I had time to improve this" or "oh there's an inconsistency in the way we run this process between projects"  growing, while I don't have time to fix it because part of my job also includes chasing around busy people who hate admin work for approvals and sign-offs and copies of relevant documents they forgot to forward me, something that seems to take a disproportionate amount of my time lol. But I have very nice and great colleagues, so that helps smooth over almost any minor thing like that! 

