Free Interactive Online VBA Tutorial
The site looks really easy to navigate around. Ive been wanted to expand more into VBA. Thanks for this!
Just tried it. I would suggest that if someone cant get an answer correct after a few tries, you give the answer with an explanation.

http://imgur.com/a/EL9wm
It was a lack of stuff like this that brought me to python (via Datacamp), which fortunately, my job allows me to use. 

Good on you guys for doing this - its much needed.
"Unable to connect" - could this be "the reddit hug of death"?
This is coming up as a suspicious site at work and is blocked by our firewall, just fyi. 
Thank You
I love it!

Haven't tried the exercises but I really like the section on speeding up the process. I've been building an excel sheet and importing a set of sheets and combining their values takes forever. You reminded me of the disable auto calc and re-enable it afterward. Thank you!
Bravo!
Thanks, this is what I needed. I'm missing out on a lot of basic knowledge of VB by copying/pasting everything. 
Looking forward to trying this out! I've been trying to get my hands on some form of "intro to vba" for excel recently!
Hey, looks nice. Had a 10 second play on my phone.

I'll pass it on to a couple of aspiring vba initiates I know at work and see what they think.

Cheers!
Hi, I think that you made a great job in this tutorial. I just recommend to you adding more advanced topics like access File System Objects, PDF Conversions and Forms. 
RemindMe!
.GBY buddy!
I just noticed there are issues with correct answers not registering properly because the spaces don't line up with the answer... I thought I had tested that!, but I will need to update the app accordingly.
There's a light bulb you hover over. I think there's something wrong with that one though.
If you click the lightbulb next to the question, the correct answer is entered into the box.  I'll need to make that more clear.
From this tiny sub? I think not...
Thanks for the heads up!  I'm guessing your firewall is Norton's?  I'm working with them to resolve the issue.
I'm glad you liked it. I'm definitely planning to add more topics and add more content to some of the existing topics.
just noticed that on question 5, otherwise thanks for this!!
If you have Norton or BlueCoast firewall, that may be the issue.  I've submitted the sites for review to those firewall services. Hopefully it gets resolved quickly.
We use bluecoat I think. 
Same problem here - we use BlueCoat
Also submitted a request to BlueCoat.   Hopefully gets resolved quickly.
I really liked it, in fact it gave me some ideas for a tutorial that I have to do, it's for a system developed by myself. Thanks for sharing it!
Did you use any free template to create this design or it was entirely created by you? Would you like to share the html source code?
How did you get past question #5? I've tried all different spacing

Received an email that the site's been recategorized by BlueCoat. I think it should work for you now!
Received an email that the site's been recategorized by BlueCoat. I think it should work for you now!
oh sorry, i didn't but noticed it was a spacing issue when i clicked for the solution
If you click the light bulb and click enter it will advance to the next question.

Also, I fixed the answer so hopefully it works now (you may need to clear your internet history and refresh the website for it to show up.

I'm reviewing the rest of the tutorial for any other issues with spacing.
It does. Much success!
Thanks for fixing that.
Step 13 of section 1 also has a spacing problem:

Will not accept: Sheets("Data").Range("A2").Value = "text"

You have to remove the spaces before and after the "=" for it to be accepted, contrary to all previous examples.
Fixed. Sorry about that.
