Web data mining with VBA
I have an open source EXCEL add-in that might help:

http://ogres-crypt.com/SMF

It's basically a collection of user-defined functions that pull data from web pages and data files into a range or cell of EXCEL.

There's currently a problem with Yahoo defined extractions, because they just changed their web pages and I don't have EXCEL available for a few weeks.
Use VBA to make a GET request and then process the data like Selenium.

    Set objHTTP = CreateObject("MSXML2.ServerXMLHTTP")
    URL = "http://www.somedomain.com"
    objHTTP.Open "POST", URL, False
    objHTTP.setRequestHeader "User-Agent", "Mozilla/4.0 (compatible; MSIE 6.0; Windows NT 5.0)"
    objHTTP.send("")

You can also get regex involved if you are really inclined.
You can use Power Query to get data from the web. Alternatively, you can look here: https://github.com/VBA-tools/VBA-Web
Someone out there made a Selenium add-in that allows you to use webdriver to call Firefox and Chrome instances. I tried it once but wasn't worth the effort to learn because I haven't run into the shitty IE problems that you are. Look up Selenium wrapper for VBA and see if it alleviates your problem. 
Depending on what is needed from the incorrectly loaded pages, if the data is still there (just not displayed properly) you could probably use Regex to extract it.
Sorry for the ignorance, but what methods can I use to get elemtns/data from the web page? Can I use JS/Selenium methods? 

Thanks for the help!
I've been curious how this sort of thing works for ages, what terms would I research to find out more about pulling data?
Thanks! I'll take a look at it.

As for my task I ended up using IE with some workarounds to get the data I need (not scalable coding, but it worked)
I know about Selenium, and I've used it, but it's no longer working
Nope, the data is not there because it's a JS that loads more data into the page, and for some reason it doesn't work on IE. Anyways, I found a workaround, thanks!
Ultimately, you're looking to 'interact with the DOM' with your particular tech stack. For VBA, I'm guessing XPath is what you'd research. 
It's always a bit hard to find exactly what you want, but usually stackoverflow can lead you in the right direction

Usually keywords like "methods" and looking for the kind of objects you are manipulating will give some documentation on what you want

Usually something like "VBA Web Scrape" will get you there. 
What workaround have you found to solve this issue? It will help to leave the solution in this thread so people searching in the future can find an answer.
Thanks! I'll be trying this for my next project
It's too context specific. I just used a different way to get the data - it costed me more hours of programming, but I used the same basic methods. I basically had to explore many different pages to get the same data I would in one page.
