Thank you r/Excel
I'm a psychologist... I usually spend my days giving nebulous, "grey area" answers. It's nice to take a break from all of that and be able to give a quick, concrete answer. 
MS should just take you here when you ^(accidentally) press F1
I wish I could say that I try to help because I'm a good person. In reality I just love problem solving and excel is my drug of choice.
💚🐍
I completely agree with this, and would like to double up on it.

I'm not a big poster on Reddit, but this sub might have one of the best and most helpful communities on the site. 

Thank you very much r/Excel!
I think most of us just like problem/puzzle solving. We also use Excel all day but run into mostly the same situations so it's a nice change of pace to see the other ways people are using it. But I definitely agree, this community is extremely reliable. Thank you to all the contributors!
There's dozens of us!!
Thank you r/excel
I know you! 😍 
Yep, this forum is really kind and giving. I've found many answers on here as well. 
Yup most helpful and useful Reddit I've been on. 
How does a psychologist end up with Excel skills?
So many times do I wish I could disable f1. Or move it far far away from f2, the most used key on my keyboard.
F1 knowledge actually bailed me out once - I was taking an excel exam in excel when I was Newish to excel. Internet was disabled, but anything in excel was fair game. I F1'd my way through the exam. Specifically, the finance formulas - I tend to lean on the actual math instead of the finance equation, but they wanted to finance equations instead
Even though other people beat me to giving a good answer (*cough* /u/epicmindwarp *cough* /u/rnelsonee *cough* /u/semicolonsemicolon), I like to see everyone else's clever solutions to compare to my clunky, klugey workarounds.
new years eve resolution was instead of spending time playing sudoku, to learn excel. then just sorta went on websites during a bit of downtime. 
I just recently watched "Split" and I could only imagine the data tracking and analysis that could be done. 
I have a macro set up in my excel file that opens hidden whenever I open Excel:

    Sub Auto_Open()
    '...
        'Disable the F1 Help key because it's annoying to hit it when you go for F2
        Application.OnKey "{F1}", ""
    '...
    End Sub
You can download some free macros from Macabacus - built in f1 disabler.
I don't know about PC, but on Mac you can remap keyboard shortcuts (via the OS, not through MS Office). I wonder if that could help with the F1 conundrum.
I usually press ctrl+space+C to close down that annoying window. It doesn't bother me that much now that I've learned the shortcut.
tbh I think F1 is underrated. The formula descriptions and examples are usually quite good. If I forget how some argument of a formula works I usually just hit F1 instead of googling. 
Today I learned the word 'klugey'. Tomorrow I shall use it in some prose.
Oh I'm sure when you delve into the realm of psychometrics, then data analysis skills become crucial.
Haha, I learned it very soon after I began trying to write code at work. It's a very useful word for a novice coder. (It's said with a soft G, btw - "CLUE-jee".)
