What freelancing opportunities are available if you have decent Excel skills?
I went through this path a couple years ago. I too have a decent business mind (in finance) and I am proficient in general, not too complex, pivots, vb code, analytics.

I found a couple low paying contracts that ended up being way more work than they were worth. I ended up working a contract that was $1000 and looked simple on the surface but ended up being about 75 hours of work. This came out to a paltry amount for the type of work I was doing.

I'm sure there are gems out there to do work on but the type of client that is looking for a contractor to do excel is generally a very small business that has a low estimated value on the scope of work. Any reasonably sized company will just hire in house or has expanded well beyond excel for analytics.
I had a professor who offered automation consulting. He did a lot of work in Excel, but he was also amazing at BASIC programming. In my mind, you need to create the oppurtunities. If you can find a willing small business, offer a consultation and see if you can use more advanced Excel concepts or programming to improve their workflows.
I hire US-based excel freelancers, pls DM me
I've seen people get decent gigs working for a former employer. So, you go in, work as an analyst for a year or two, then convert to a remote contractor maintaining everything you setup. 

Oh, and SQL of definitely the future. You can be monumentally more productive in SQL... Capable of automating everything. The job title there is a DBA or "data scientist" or senior analyst... Depending on what your are doing precisely.
You always will get under bid by foreigners.  
Fiverr.com might be an option for you. 
Unless you have a really clear idea of the scope of a job you should avoid a hard money/lump sum/fixed price. Most companies will accept a Time & Materials rate ($100/hour) with an estimate. You need to be clear when you have spent 40% and 80% of your budget what you think the job will take to complete. 
Can you expand on the SQL thing and what type of scenarios would cause for a company to contract a freelancer out? What type of SQL skills should I learn?

I've been thinking of brushing up on my SQL skills (mostly just learning how to run queries) and then exporting that data into an excel file and analyzing it for businesses. But I'm not sure what type of situations would present itself that cause for a company to need such a person?
Just stay away from upwork

Ouch. At the same time this is the reality of our skills.

The 2017 "He is a wizard on Excel!" is becoming the 1995 "He can type 120 words a minute!"

It's pretty cool that I can basically do anything Excel can do, but every year it seems to lose its allure. In fact, outside of serving as the final mile delivery method of data to clients, excel work is starting to be seen as "manual" work that is "toil" at my company.

I used to use a combination of R and Excel to collate and aggregate company data but now being told it needs to be done using a hosted MySQL database managed by myself. I appreciate the learning opportunity, but at the same time I'm not seeing much of a time saving over the old method

I guess to some people your work isn't impressive unless your screen looks like a "hacker"'s computer
There is a decent demand for people who accept contractor roles with job titles like business analyst or financial analyst, but when they get there, most of their work involves getting data from different systems and running reports for the business. 

The folks who are really valuable can automate a lot of the work with simple scripting and/or SQL querying that is pulled into Excel and generates reports dynamically. 

See also: Sql Server Integration Services, Microsoft SQL Server Integration with Excel, VBA Scripting, SQL Server + Syntax
Yup, that's what my contract start-up get our labor from.  I just write the SOP and tell them what to do and manage the data entries.  They are cheap and very talented
That's why I always keep rstudio and SQL server up on two of my screens at work. Look like a fuckin wizard
