Need to give my company reasons to upgrade me to Excel 2013
You just typed it up.
Why not to go to 2016? You can use same reasoning.

Show them Flash Fill feature in Excel. If you are using Shared workbooks tell them that Excel 2013\2016 is much more stable with shared workbooks.   
"I need Excel 2013 to increase my workflow efficiency and limit the potential for errors.  I would be able to get more accurate work done faster freeing my time for additional analysis, work, etc.."
Mention count distinct in pivots. 
Don't you ask your manager for it and just tell them exactly why and then let the manager fight IT? That's what I've done in every job I've ever worked and it's worked. 
Your company probably already has the license for it, it's just a matter of having someone with privs install it!
Office 2010 is officially out of support. Upgrading is cheaper than paying for extended support.

http://www.allyncs.com/docs/lifecyclesupport.html
What is your salary when broken down per minute (better yet if this works in your scenario, how much are you supposed to bring in for the company)...now, how much does it cost for you to do the work around?

Show it will pay off in no time flat.  
Because it is 2017 already?

Also the built-in data model and power query (get & transform) is extremely useful.
Show them powerpivot and power query.
Maybe it would be easier to get another monitor.
Or it's about $40.

So just spend the $40 already.
Dude, you're fucking cheap.
...good point
plus Get and Transform. 
not a lot is happening in 2013
Go on.. 
I figured out how to do this and it is amazing.
What's that? 
Power Query has made my life so much easier.  BTW, I think the "Get & Transform" is the Excel 2016 version?  I only mention it b/c why bother upgrading to 2013 when there is a later version.
I'm working on Excel 2000 - and I wish I was joking - boss is talking about upgrading us to Office 2007 because we just found roughly 500 keys for Office 2007.  We have ~ 6 computers.
For my work computer? Fuck that
It's absurd not to ask your job to provide you with up to date tools to do your job.  Why would you get into the habit of paying out of your own pocket to do better work?  That being said, after I asked and my company wouldn't upgrade from excel 2010, I just split a license for it with a few friends who also wanted it and put a copy in my work computer because it was worth it to me
Except multiple workbooks open at the same time which is pretty critical
You click the little button on the bottom "data model" or something when generating the pivot, then it's just an option in the formula of a pivot like a sum or count.

Seriously cool
$3.50 scrap license on eBay for Office 2016. Perfectly legal.
Depending on what sort of firm you work for might be a very big deal for an employee to use software not licensed by the company to manipulate or create company property. The ownership of the work, coverage of the work by the company's errors and omissions insurance, the validity of representations and warranties about the work and decisions made using it are all called in to question of the software isn't owned by the Company.

As you and others have said, your company should pony up for it. 
Don't buy it yourself. Having different versions in an office creates viewing issues.  Many great features are not backwards compatible. If you create something in '13, some of it won't function for your co workers. I don't remember exactly which features but I just remember the frustration before we upgraded across the board.
No...have the COMPANY pay!!!
I agree - ask work.  If they don't upgrade after laying out a compelling argument, either buy it yourself or find a new fucking job because you can be sure they sure as shit will fight you on a pay raise.  I'm looking at a $12 scrap key on eBay... This is lunch money we're talking about...
I don't know how many employers would give you access to install applications on your work computer 
