A little program that helped me tons with Excel and saved me hours of wrist pain
This could also be done pretty easily using AutoHotKey, along with a bunch of other useful macros like this. Highly recommend it if you're up for a little bit of scripting.
I use the Happy Hacking Keyboard, its a 60% and my hands don't leave the home row for anything. Arrows are on a function key layer to the left of enter.   
A script could remap your keys too, like Auto Hot Key.  

Your solution is cool too. 
The fact that this is close to but *not* vi navigation would drive me, a 20+ year vi-user, absolutely fuckin' nuts.
Ok. But what about ctrl pgup or ctrl c or you know typing actual words? Maybe I'm missing something here.
You know that actually makes a lot of sense. Not that I'll install it because I don't like bloat when it takes long enough as is to process. That should come native to Excel.

But if the 10 key, mouse/trackpad, and arrow keys are all right hand. I never thought even thought about the fact my left hand is hardly doing more than typing 1/2 of the formulas. 
I've been trying for a while to completely stop using mouse, but we have systems that just don't tab friendly. I just don't know alternatives. Now we're switching out our old black screen system. That are actually really efficient if you know how to use them to friendly big picture portals that just don't tab. I know old systems are very expensive to maintain and are a major risk of maintaining. These new easy to use systems just aren't very efficient for me. 
If only there was an add-on to excel that permanently added VIM-style keybindings (HJKL for cursor movement).
i agree, why do ALT-L-V-V to paste as value, when i can hotkey it to CTRL-B


Yes! I want to get a Poker 3 when I'll start my new pc build. I think this is a good way to transition to the 60%s and seeing if it's a style that suits you without having to spend a dime.

I wanted to try AHK, but there's no portable version that I'm aware of, and I cannot install anything on my work pc :(
Ahahahah yeah. I used hjkl for roguelikes, but now that I've found out about this configuration I realized it works so much better for me. Actually, I found it after googling "hjkl for windows"!

Btw, you can change the configuration to whatever you want, the IJKL is just the author suggestion.
You hold spacebar with those keys for the shortcuts, otherwise you just type if you don't want to activate them.

For example, to get ctrl pgup you hold space, then press ctrl+H. It doesn't get into conflict with search and replace because while the spacebar is pressed the input for H is pgup. If you don't hold spacebar, however, ctrl+H will give you search and replace.

It sounds very confusing at first, but it gets natural over time. It has rarely given me conflicts with already existing shortcuts.
I swapped my mouse to my left hand when i was doing a lot of numerical entry on the keypad. Hovered the mouse over a button I had to click frequently and right hand on the keypad.

Now IT support and it screws me up when at a true-lefty desk and they have flipped the left / right mouse buttons, but I still swap the mouse back and forth, also helpful when working on two different computers.
A lot of the stuff that's built-in in technology is more dictated by standard than by actual ease of use... think about qwerty: it is a keyboard configuration design with the specific intent of *making typing slower*, since the typewriters had the problem of jamming. But when we transitioned to computers this remained and now it is the norm. A lot of brilliant ideas come out now and then, but they don't have enough coverage to become the norm. So we stick with what's standard (also because it is a pain in the butt to use other colleagues' pcs for me).

If you don't like bloat, you can try the portable version: you don't have to install anything, and when you get tired of it you just delete the folder. It works on all windows applications, not only excel: now I cannot imagine my life without it.
In widows 10 try using different desktops win ctrl left / right once youve added them ( press the multipane button by the start button and click add in the bottom.right)
I made the same macro:)
Autohotkey is portable just drop the exe on a usb. I may or may not be using it at work right now.
Ok, thank you, appreciate the help
Oooh really? Do you have a link?
On Mobile so not right now but just Google it super easy hope it works.
That's the thing... I don't see a portable version on the website, but only from portableapps websites and such... whom I don't really trust. I'd like an official version somehow.
Just get the official download it does not require a install thus making it portable 
