Anyone use Excel for planning out practical applications in life? What do you do and will you be so kind to share?
I have tracked every time I have filled up my gas tank since 2012.  My insurance company didn't believe me that I drove an 'improbably low amount'.  I showed them my logs, with accompanying charts, dates, prices, etc.
About a year ago I wrote a VBA application in Excel which determined the best way to make money in a game I was playing at the time :P Not sure if this answers your question though...
Oh, my chance to nerd out here. Track household spending, long term financial targets to achieve FIRE, fitness tracking because I set an annual target to hit about 1,500 km between running, cycling and hiking, keep notes on favourite scotch whiskeys and where to get them, charitable donations throughout the year, travel planning between different vacation spots, major house renovations and projects, client communication notes and billing tracking (run my own business), investments, Christmas and birthday gifts for friends and family so I don't forget, car repairs and grocery lists. Yeah, I'm likely on the autism spectrum :-) GO EXCEL!
It's simple, but for like seven years now I have been maintaining a cash flow forecast for my checking account.  I generally only project out two months (at most), and it isn't fancy or anything.  Just basic adding and subtracting.
I created a spreadsheet to help solve the daily Cryptoquote. There is a substitution key, the puzzle area, and a solution area. You type in the puzzle in the puzzle area and the sheet then displays letter frequency. There is a key where you enter a substitution value and it performs all the substitutions in the solution area. 
I weigh myself nearly everyday and wear a fitbit that serves as a pedometer. Each week there's an auto average, which is a great way to let me know if I'm slowing putting on weight (or just not walking as much as I should; see my screenname). 

Most weight gain occurs incrementally, where before you know it you're 10lbs over where you should. Daily monitoring seems to help. 
I currently use it to track my nutrition, weight and workout. I needed a tool that could automatically tell me the combined values for the macro-nutrients based on (the weight/amount of) my food/ingredients so that I hit my targets and I looked around for apps but there was nothing that did exactly what I wanted so, being an analyst, I built a tracker in Excel. I also did it to help a family member track their diet due to diabetes.
Yeah, I do my budgeting and spending forecasting. 

My spending sheet is pretty awesome. It's got like 14 workbooks with a few thousand items categorized, including what items I want to buy, where I want to buy it, acceptable costs, and quantity. Then I have it prioritized. Highest level priorities are copied to a specific workbook and forecasted based upon my income. $42,000 in items.

This allows me to know precisely what I'm buying on the next pay check, what I'm saving for, and also I have a pretty good idea what I'm buying with a paycheck in October. 

When I get an urge to splurge my money, I just go into the weeds and start looking at items. For example, I'm a gun nut, and I'm pricing out the perfect AR15 SBR right now - so I'll spend some time looking at every single 10.5" barrel on the market and comparing them, then ultimately picking the right one, and adding it to the cue for purchase.
Not sure if this is what you're looking for and it's not very fancy but my friends and I have been using this sheet for years to track in our interest in various games to decide what we're going to play on game night.

https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1U_7M35O8TMewShaBYv1Zhgi4xmI6QpyzyqhpdZCAsxw/edit?usp=sharing
You mean like household budgets?
Built a simple Calorie Tracker which takes into account your height, weight and calories consumed
3 Things. Though 2 of them are actually in Google Sheets

1. Running log - I've tracked every mile I've run since 2006, along with weather, weight, time, & pace.
2. Home Budget - I have something like 50 different line items in my household budget. I plan out how much we are going to spend on each item per month for the whole year, and then track how we are doing.
3. Fantasy Football. I've built a drafting algorithm that uses information like a players projected value, and when they are typically drafted to map out the ideal draft strategy and update it in real time as players are selected.

-ecig juice recipes 

-online purchases

-loan amortization for a personal loan

-new car options, features, costs

-vacation budget and costs tracker

-18650 battery inventory/tracker

-ISP provider costs/features comparison

-tracking medications

-comparing and contrasting any other future large purchases, or services from a company. 

Most have formulas of some kind. And I'm usually just using Google sheets, because free. 


Super niche case, but... sometimes when I have to download subtitles from the internet for a movie that's in another language, they don't line up quite right. I made a file that offsets the time by some number of seconds. It's a bit of trial and error until you get it right, but not bad to deal with compared to the alternative of learning Japanese. 
I made a sheet that checks if my lotto ticket won and how much. It used conditional formatting to highlight numbers and formulas to count how many numbers won, then check the division amounts.
If I'm going on a vacation that involves a lot of activities, then I make an Excel worksheet that resembles the Outlook Week outlook. Then I play with blocks of time to determine what I need to book in advance.
I use Microsoft Planner for most of my planning these days. 
I once built a complete mining guide for Eve.  It had time, amount and price of the ore.  I could figure out which ore was the most profitable 
I have a cash flow prediction (1YR forecast), home vs rent calculator, debt payoff that adjusts to pay highest interest first, weight and calorie calculator that calculates your TDEE so you can adjust your calories, and I use a sheet as a sub-ledger for purchases
I made a spreadsheet with all the American and Italian holidays from 2017 to ∞ 

You can also check if a date you are interested in it's an holiday or Saturday/Sunday 
For a while I used it to track my weight and lift numbers. It's nice seeing little graphs of how much you improved over time. 

I don't go to the gym as much anymore but the useful application I have for it now is tracking rent and utilities expenses. That way I can just send a screenshot to my roommate at the end of the month. 

I even wrote a macro to create the new month for me. 
Same as the other posters here. I made an adaptive calorie tracker based on the spreadsheet over at r/Fitness. I mostly use it on Google Sheets though, because I  like being able to access it on my phone. I think the thing I really like about that is that I have a portion where I could log new values in, and it takes into account what clothes I wear and auto subtracts it before adding it to my database so to speak.

Also, it gives me the latest 30-day chart on my weight and calorie intake so I can track it.

Ohh, and I've been using Sheets too to look through a database that I got from my country's nutritional database. Their site was crappy so I decided to just get the database myself and automate searching through it using Sheets.
Summer plans for my kids.

Carpool signups for groups.


I'm an accountant, keep all my personal financial records in Excel.
I am currently constructing a poker matrix that analyzes the EV (expected value) of betting strategy over large sample sizes. I have already had results in figuring out a "meta game" way of thinking using statistical analysis of players actual behaviors in game. This would not be possible without Ignition. Which is special because they post hand histories that include every players hand after 24 hours. There is an enormous public data set there that no one else has culled.
I had a VBA conundrum and my friend sent me a bit of code they used for their everyday living which contained some useful logic at the time. They had written code to interpret desired meals for their family in order to determine a comprehensive shopping list. What did me in was that they labelled all of their meals the same as Hobbits: Breakfast, Second Breakfast, Elevenses, Lunch, (they skipped afternoon tea), Dinner, and Supper. 

I had some constrained laughter at work.
Once I'd finally finished going through tagging my mp3 collection with correct artist, track name, track number, disc number etc. information in iTunes, I wrote a bit of VBA which would move the files from their prior location to a new folder structure, consisting of Album Artist\Album Name\(Disc number if number of discs > 1)-Track Number (prefixed with leading 0)-Artist Name-Track Name.mp3
I'm staring at spreadsheets and databases 45 hours a week, when I get home that's the last thing I want to be doing.

None. Just a budget and finances spreadsheet I built years ago, that doesn't need a lot of maintenance. It uses Mint for the data entry (Deposits and POS), it links in from csv export of Mint actual vs budgeted from the past 30 days (=sumifs based on category and if > today() -30).
I do an exercise routine every day. It's a repetition and got different short time intervals. First 45 seconds doing this, then 20 seconds resting, then 60 seconds doing this other thing and so on.

I got a PDF with all the intervals written. Every day the routines are different. I found very complicated to follow the instructions from the PDF and set the intervals on a mobile or any other device was impossible.

So what I did was enter all these different times and repetitions in a spreadsheet. I did a macro that show the seconds in a big font on the TV in my living room where I do the exercises and I even make it beeping at the last 3 seconds to remind me that the time is over.

It's extremely easy to follow the program now with this simple sheet. It's like having one of this training videos where the instructor tells you how long you need to carry on. But my instructor is excel.
My cat and dog both have special diet food they need to be on so there are specific brands and styles of food I need to buy for both. 

I import prices into a spreadsheet and see what the cost, cost per oz/lb, cost per meal, and meals per month I would get out of each can or bag. I have a static field for each on highest to lowest recommended. Now I know which is the highest recommended for the cheapest price whenever I make an order.
When I dropped a lot of weight, I weighed myself every morning for two years, I graphed out the total information as well as the last 30 days  and ran lin regs on them to show the trend. Very similar to what a lot of weightloss apps do now. But if I wanted to run any sort of analysis (like looking at the average gain/loss from Fridays to Mondays) I had all the data available.
Love the actual use case
I do the same. I got started in 2015 though.  I also include maintenance expenses and lease payments so that I can generate a total cost per km for the car. It let's me track when the optimal life of the vehicle is over. 
Wouldn't it have been easier to just show them a pic of your odometer? 
Did you have receipts?

Because that in itself can't be proof because I could just fake it...
I did this for a mobile game like five years ago.  Before I realized I went a bit too far with it, I had figured out how to create conditional sumifs.
Actually kind of does. I want to see what everyone has built. 
Was it EVE Online?
I aspire to be you. I love the efficiency sounds like a lot of work organizing at first. 
I'm just about one year in to my budget!  Loving it.  I have rollover spreadsheets in it that help me save for annual expenditures and fun purchases
I do this too, but I project it out about 6-9 months. I've given my template to a few people. At first they don't get it, and then when they do they love it.
I know I'm a nerd when I find this super cool. 
That's awesome
That sounds awesome, do you mind sharing? I would love to see how you set up your shell. 
This is my dream
How do you handle changes in prices between entering and purchasing? It seems like this approach would mean you'd need to reprice every item every month?
I did the same but never finished my wish list. I ended up not buying anything for the same reason, and saved all the money. How much % of your income do you allocate to this category? Would you mind sharing the workbooks?
What does the genre balance do? How does that function work?


Do you and your friends play online or get together 
Yes like a household budget, a shell for a fitness program, things like that. I find that my life runs a lot more efficiently when it's structured. 
I'm working on the same thing, do you mind sharing how it adjusts itself?
whoa, I'm very interested in that last one. Is it possible you wouldn't mind sharing?
Sumproduct has been overpowered for a long time.
I was thinking Diablo III.
It just started out with one worksheet, then made another, and so on. Believe me, I didn't set out to build 20 different worksheets to manage my life - it just sort of happened incrementally. That being said, I would honestly not know what to do without them all.
Care to share? :)
Not at the moment no, it was never meant for anyone else. It's straight up numbers and calcs, no UX, and filled with personal data. Nothing complex though, a sheet with food (rows) and their macro-nutrients (columns), a sheet with targets and actual (columns) by day (rows), and a sheet with the food (columns) where I enter the weight I eat by day (rows) and it summarizes the macro-nutrients using, essentially, lookups and gives me a green or red based on the targets. It's used as an aid to let me know if what I (want to) eat is ok or not.
I re-price interesting items with camelcamel, or at least record a "good" price. Some items do get reordered in priority when I see a special sale.
Me personally, I'll put retail value as a placeholder. I can usually find a deal between now and then so if it comes in cheaper, throw the rest back into the splurge fund for the next item. 
It just does a simple count of how many times each genre shows up in the list. I threw it on there out of curiosity more than anything.
Online
Basically you can enter in your gender, age, height and current weight which I've calculates your TDEE (total daily energy expenditure). TDEE means the minimum calories you need to maintain your current body weight. 

What I've also added is a target calorie deficit if you want to lose weight. To lose our weight, your total calories consumed in a day must be less than your TDEE 

If your current weight changes overtime, your TDEE adjusts accordingly. In other words, your target calorie intake a day is your TDEE - Target Calorie Deficit
Keep your eyes peeled on /r/fantasyfootball

I posted it there last year and will post it again this year as soon as the source I use for player projections releases their projections for 2017. Last year they released 2016 projections on May 15, so it should be any day now.
Oh this was with the "sumif" function.  I didn't realize sumproduct could be used for conditional statements until my last job.
They will be nerfed soon..
Cool, that's similar to what I'm trying to do!

Does your tracker also adjust for the 'actual' TDEE? Say for example (values not accurate), my calculated TDEE for my current weight is 2000. I want to lose 0.5 kg a week, so my daily deficit should be 500. My target calorie intake would be 1500. I meet my target calories for a week. I weigh in the next week and note that I actually lost 0.7 kg a week. Does your sheet adjust itself (apply a factor/valuable/percentage, I guess) to sort of fine tune its calculations, or does it still use the same formula for TDEE?

From what I've understood, that's what the spreadsheet over at r/Fitness does and right now, I'm really just piggybacking off of that sheet for the calculations.
> I weigh in the next week and note that I actually lost 0.7 kg a week. Does your sheet adjust itself (apply a factor/valuable/percentage, I guess) to sort of fine tune its calculations, or does it still use the same formula for TDEE?

Yes! It fine tunes its calculations based on the current latest information. It's basically a big long table I've built with the TDEE calculations and there are two cells where you enter in the calories consumed for the day and the weight on that day.

My tracker is built for daily recordings so it may be too granular.
I record daily too. That's what I'm having trouble wrapping my head around. Mind sharing the sheet itself or explaining that part of the calculations? I'm guessing it compares the estimated weight loss and the actual weight lost and works it out from there?
No problem mate. I'll need to dig it out of my PC when I get home from work! Hope you don't mind waiting
Yup, it's all right. Thanks!
