got an analyst position...that DOES NOT use any excel? What ways should I integrate it myself?
How could you do anything with numbers without excel? I don't even know how this would begin to work. 
What do they use?
because its already made i suppose...into pdf files, so i just read them and see if it makes sense without doing anything on excel specifically.. =[ 
id like to keep it confidential as possible, but i research a lot about rating instead.....using various different websites with a shit ton of pdf files. think of those companies who use their own special kind of software...so im supposed to do a lot of cross referencing..
Start using Excel to produce results. It is as simple as that.

Do it on the sly and produce results, if it is more efficient they may come on board. . but nothing is ever guarenteed..

Perhaps they simply do not have the skill set to use Excel to its full potential on their given areas.
yeah, maybe im so beginner in all this..

what techniques should i do? 
i have policies from all types of lines of business and idk what to compare really. the date? severity? what am i trying to calculate? idk. these are questions i should be asking myself...even tho the answer is already made....gahhhh
I have no idea about the work, but see how they do things and then do them in Excel.. I have not been in a job yet where I cannot shortcut something using Excel.

The problem lies where you do not have Excel experience to know what you can do in Excel.. if so start slowly, Excel can do everything, so google an answer or ask on this subreddit.
it tends to be a lot of research heavy, and the numbers are already there in pdf, so its not like im trying to interpolate date (although i could) and it gets messy with where do i get the data even from....okay enough of my rant. 
You could try opening the pdfs in MS Word, in many cases the text or tables are formatted in a usable manner. Once it's in Word it's simple enough to get it into Excel
Great idea, I'll give it a try...i feel annoying when i ask other people, so wh3n can I use excel....never...
