large
3xznun
Need your help please: How to post online one sheet from a large workbook that needs to reflect constant updates.

First of all thank you for y'all help. I have searched and cannot figure this out. I have a large workbook (about 40 sheets or so). One of the sheets generates numbers and updates that are controlled by data input in other sheets in that workbook.  This single sheet (not the entire workbook) needs to be shared and displayed with a group of individuals online and must have the ability to be updated live by me using the rest of the workbook.  When I input current data it needs to be reflected on the one sheet the group can see live online. How can I go about doing this?  Thank you.


-------------
easy.

1. learn ruby on rails, html and css

2. sign up for your own domain on godaddy.com and create your own web page with a table that extends to as many cells as needed.

3. write a visual basic macro that navigates to the page via IE, enters in the requisite password and batch uploads the data to your table.

4. ???

5. give up on the enterprise, and do it all in google sheets.


but seriously, if this has to be a document accessible via the web, your choices are 1-3 or 5. if yall aren't on the same network, the much easier solution would be to create an email account everyone has access to and write a macro that sends the workbook to that account whenever saved. the latest version would be the latest email.
-------------
 How 'live? Every key press? Would pressing a button to 'publish' be acceptable? 

Have you seen this? 
https://blogs.office.com/2013/04/10/office-web-viewer-view-office-documents-in-a-browser/

If that is no good your best bet is to use VBA to export to a format easily consumed by a simple webpage. XML, CSV etc.  The choice is best matched to your data.
-------------
Half, please refer to the response I sent phunky for the more detailed version of what I am trying to do. The email account with a macro sounds simple enough. I do not know how to do macros though. Is it simple enough for you to explain and with what you know now from above what would you do?  Thank you again for your response 
-------------
Phunky. Thank you for the response. Sorry I am just getting back to you now that the holidays are over. Simply pressing a button is acceptable. The general gist of this is that I am creating a betting sports book for my fantasy football league where people can bet on a team to win it all or matchup spreads and all that. Its way more complicated but basically when money is bet on something the odds for everything change, just like a real casino sportsbook. So I essentially want a single sheet that can be viewed by everyone where when I enter a bet they can see the odds change on that single sheet. Those odds are calculated by items in the rest of the workbook that I do not want them to see. I know excel well but nothing more than a lot of functions and equations. Thank you again for your help
-------------
there's a prettier solution in which you use a macro to create an HTML file based on what bets are placed in a column on your main sheet and then host that html file from a website that offers free hosting i.e. like geocities used to do. but if you just want to share a file with others, use dropbox and edit the file from there. pretty sure you can manage permissions in drop box so that only you can open, edit and save the file while others can only read it.


if you want to learn about hosting a website for free by using a sort of "hack" via drop box, check this [out](http://lifehacker.com/5530961/the-simplest-and-cheapest-free-web-hosting-services).
-------------
Hey there, no problem.

I would probably go for a VBA macro that simply exports your 'output' sheet from your workbook.

This should then be interpreted then displayed by a web page.

If you know Excel but not web much then you want the latter part to be as cut n paste as possible.

There are quite a lot of libraries out there that could take your exported data (JSON or XML ideally) then display it in a 'pretty' way e.g. a table, tree, treegrid etc. 

One I used recently is EasyUI but there are plenty of similar things about. Most can take a raw data file and display it nicely.

If you could post a single sheet output example then it might be possible to knock up a quick example page.
-------------
Can you give me the explainlikeimfive version ha?  I understand that I essentially need to make a vba macro to export that single sheet to a library web host that could display it every time I export it.  I do not know how to do any of those things though. I only understand the process. 
-------------
So you are trying to get from one format of data (a sheet) to another (possibly a web page) so you can share part of it.

To do that, you can use Excel's export functionality to generate a file. That file can then be what you share.

To share it you need a network and a server. The network could be the internet or a private network (like your home wifi). The server could be a cheap web host on the internet, or a PC (or other device like a raspberry pi) on your own home network running a free software service. 

Now web servers are built for sharing but there are many possibilities, it really depends who and how the file will be accessed. 

Let's assume you go for a web server, the file you provide really needs to be HTML. You can actually export HTML directly from Excel. Once you have the file you simply copy it to your web server machine and presto... it is shared.

The result will be pretty hokey as the HTML created by Excel isn't brilliant, but hey try it by saving the file to your PC and then opening it with your browser. 

If this is not suitable then you can take the next step. You use an 'intermediate' format which is just the data you want to display, then make another HTML page designed to open that data file and display it in a 'pretty' view.

Rather than jumping right to a final solution,  try exporting your sheet in as many formats as you can, then looking at the results. If you can do it once by hand then the VBA part is really just automating the same steps (you can even RECORD the macro so you don't have to particularly know how to write it)

-------------
Thank you so much. I am going to try this next. In the time I was waiting I actually made some headway of my own by teaching a few things to myself.  I created a module that saved the invidual sheet as a new file. This new file was saved to a drop box which the league has a link for. I then created a button in my big workbook that when I clicked it would run that module for that single sheet. So essentially I input a bet, click the button, it saves the single sheet to dropbox instantly and they see the updated sheet. Think I am in business. Thank you again for your help
-------------
Nice one! 
