large
4fuij6
How can I search for first and last name in large database (First name can be an initial or a full match) without getting a huge number of hits?

Sorry I am far from a techie so excuse my ignorance. I have a database that contains several information including names (first and last name always appear within a cell) and address among others. 

So Each row has a cell that contains first and last name or Last name and First name. Sometimes it will appear First name initial and last name. Sometimes it will appear with a space between or sometimes there isn't any space. Sometimes it will have a middle name in the middle or at the end. Sometimes it will also contain street names.

So what is the most effective search function I can use? For example, I am looking for John Smith. It can appears in the database as:
jsmith
smithj
johnsadamssmith
smithjohn adams
smith johnadams
smith j
mr smith jadams

I tried * but it is getting excessive results (I don't want to get "joansmith, smithjill etc) 
Your help would be most appreciated!! 


-------------
There's no easy answer. What I tend to do is get a list of the unique values and then add a column some unique proper identifier (employee ID number, GUID from whatever source system, etc). Then you can use vlookup to relate the good identifier to the bad identifier.

It's a huge amount of manual work to get it set up, but it makes future work easier. If it sucks then only do it once :)
-------------
Unfortunately that's just a data integrity issue.  By which I mean the source data isn't consistent, so you don't have an easy way to consistently find what you want.

I'd look for an alternate ID method, like employee number or email address for example.
-------------
assuming your potential list is in A1:A10 - adjust as necessary

     =sumproduct(--(isnumber(Search("j",A1:A10)))*--(isnumber(search("smith",A1:A10))))

will give you the number of cells with both j and smith in. 

     =sumproduct(large(--(isnumber(Search("j",A1:A10)))*--(isnumber(search("smith",A1:A10))*row(A1:A10)),N)

where N is the nth hit you want to return, will give you the row number of the result. 

you cant narrow down your search much more than that since jsmith would be a valid result for both joan and john smith. how would you tell them apart? 

as suggested by /u/ksvr a unique ID or key field is a useful thing to have. 
-------------
Yikes. This illustrates the importance of having separate fields/columns for first name, middle, surname. Data like this is painful to try to sort/deal with.

How are you searching? Is this with VBA, or just a regular formula, or just a manual scan of the item?
-------------
Microsoft has a fuzzy lookup add-in that might be helpful.   

https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=15011


-------------
Unfortunately there isn't any other ID method I can use... :( 
-------------
Thanks- let me try this. 
-------------
This is a regular formula I believe.. yes I wish there is a separate columns for this but unfortunately no... Thus far I am using * function to search for all the results (therefore going through thousands of false positives). 
