freeze
4rvqgt
Is it possible to have multiple "freeze" settings in one worksheet?

Hello,

I think the answer to my question may be no, but I would like to know if anyone smarter than me has a solution. Here's my dilemma:

I've been making a Pokemon TCG tracking spreadsheet that has a tab for every set ever released with all of the cards in the set (as well as table of contents page with an overview). Columns A through I are the card table and I only want to freeze the top two rows so that even if the user scrolls down, they see the top of the chart. That's easy enough to do. However, in columns J & K, I have a small chart showing the rarity definitions by symbol. I would like that chart to ALWAYS show. Is it possible to freeze the top two columns from A:I but then freeze the entire sheet from I onward so that never moves if I scroll down?

Picture for reference: http://imgur.com/0muV4uG


-------------
Directly as you asked, no. Here's the closest work-around I could come up with.

1. Go to View - Window -New Window

2. Go to View - Window - Arrange All, Vertical, Windows of active workbook

3. You'll now have to views of the same workbook. Resize the one on right to only be the two column widths, and slide it over so you can see col J&K

4. In left hand pane, freeze the top two rows as you would normally. Do all you work now in left hand pane.

Should be good to go now. The right-hand pane won't change sheets, but I'm assuming it's the say key across all sheets. If you save the workbook, it will save the current layout you have (with the two views arranged that way).
-------------
I believe Freeze Panes only works to freeze cells to the left and above your chosen cell, so I think the best solution would be to move the rarity chart to columns A and B and move everything else over a couple of columns. Then select the new cell where Alakazam is (presumably D3) and select Freeze Panes from the View tab.
-------------
The short answer is no. 

The long answer is yes, if you want to add event handling code so that the small table you have is added as an image referencing the table that moves as people scroll or otherwise move across the screen so that it always shows. OR build a custom interface that browses data in a worksheet.
-------------
[deleted]
-------------
Thank you! I eventually decided just to forgo the idea but yours seemed to be the best solution to the problem.
