6g9nyo
Calculations with multiple criteria
I'm looking for a way to do calculations based on multiple criteria. I basically have about 1500 (Z) values with two indices, one spanning from 1 to Y, the other from 1 to X. For each individual XY combination (right now I have about 3 of each, but with a higher Z that's more; order matters) I need to calculate the average (Axy) and the sum of squared differences from this average. 

By default it's not a complicated thing to solve, I can just SUMIFS/COUNTIFS the two indices for the average, and do IF(AND(-index criteria-);calculation;"") but that's actually ridiculous with a X*Y*Z sized table if those numbers are big enough. 

The workbook has to do this calculation on 15 different parameters, the end result is a file that takes up about 75mb and takes ages to open. 

I've been thinking about concatenating the indices some way then doing something more complicated than what I've been doing, but I'm all out of actual knowledge at this point...

Is there any way to made this thing smaller and faster?

Please share ideas!


-------------
Providing a visual of what you're trying to do might help. I can't really picture what you're after right now. That being said you will likely find at least slight speed improvements if you save your workbook as an excel binary file. 
-------------
75MB?? is this an old file that has been re-used, with lots of detritus in the save history.. try starting with a new file.

Your current average formula can be replaced with `AVERAGEIFS` for the same result.

If the indexes never change then you only have a few cells that require the formulas.. You only need to populate those columns that intersect with a formula. If they change then a simple sub routine could populate the few intersecting cells.

Rather the RANDBETWEEN that triggers on open and every small change, , have a small subroutine that populates that column with random numbers when you want it to.

Save file as binary .xlsb for faster operation.
-------------
Oh sorry for not being perfectly clear. I quickly made a short demo of the thing. I hope this dropbox link works: https://www.dropbox.com/s/gdobu610lgfwy3y/problem.xlsx?dl=0

What I'm trying to get to is the value in the highlighted cell. Imagine the same table as like 400*1500 cells (or even more). 

If that's better I can also post pics with annotations. Nobody has to worry about opening files from the internet then :)
-------------
The indexes change sadly, so that's not an option. Averageifs is something I did not know about. Thanks for that. 

The random number generation is just to see if my solution works with different sets of data. It's an old habit of mine that's hard to get rid of.

Will try it as a binary and see if it's faster.
-------------
This subroutine fills the appropriate cells with the formula, select the range and run it

    Sub fillformula()
    Dim h As Integer
    Dim v As Integer
    For Each cell In Selection 'or Range( address )
    cell.Clear
    r = cell.Row
    c = cell.Column
    If Cells(r, 1) = Cells(1, c) And Cells(r, 2) = Cells(2, c) Then
        cell.FormulaR1C1 = "=(R" & r & "C" & 3 & "-R" & 3 & "C" & c & ")^2"
    End If
    Next
    End Sub

