slow
2o9hey
Simple macro runs very slow

I have this macro which is supposed to change negative numbers to positive. I ran it on a selection of about 300 cells and Excel froze. I am using Excel 2010. Computer should be plenty powerful. It has Windows 7, 3 GB of ram and a 2.67 Ghz Intel duo-core processor. 

Macro:
	
    Sub Positive
	Dim Cel As Range
	For Each Cel In Selection
	If IsNumeric(Cel.Value) Then
	Cel.Value = Abs(Cel.Value)
	End If
	Next Cel
	End Sub




-------------
Try adding these at the top of your code:

    Application.ScreenUpdating = False
    Application.Calculation = xlCalculationManual

And then these at the bottom:

    Application.ScreenUpdating = True
    Application.Calculation = xlCalculationAutomatic

See if that helps.
-------------
I tried your code on a selection of 2000 negative values and it runs in under a second on a machine with similar specs. It must be something to do with the sheet rather than the macro.

Disabling calculation and screen updating as suggested in another comment may help.
-------------
That did the trick. Thank you. 

What do you think caused this problem? 

Solution Verified
-------------
Pretty much any macro you run should include these lines.
-------------
You have awarded one point to elguapo1991
-------------
Well if you had formulas in other cells or worksheets referencing those cells, having it recalculate every time your For loop runs will slow it way down. So setting the calculation to manual at the beginning and then back to automatic at the end will prevent that.

Application.ScreenUpdating just slightly speeds up macros in general, since the program doesn't have to display anything that it's doing until the macro is finished.
-------------
That makes sense. I had a set of fairly complicated IF statements that ran on multiple cells in every row. 

Will setting manual calc and reenabling auto calc ever break a macro? Basically, is there any reason for me not to put those statements in every macro to make them faster? 
-------------
Short answer is no.

However, if there's a part of a macro that relies on cells being up-to-date in their calculations, you can always put

    Application.Calculate

before the part in question.

Also, it would be a good idea to add error handling to your macros when you have stuff like this. The simplest way is to add

    On Error Resume Next

to the top of your code (though there are better ways, google it).

Without error handling, if your macro encounters an error, it will just stop. That means the Application.Calculation = xlCalculationAutomatic line won't be run, which may cause confusion later down the line when you're doing other stuff.
-------------
Protip, you can just put "Calculate" no application required
