big
4ud4rf
=VLookup issue with big dataset

Hello,

I have posted here several times before regarding other things, however, I truly appreciate the help. So, thank you. 

I study wildlife, and right now - I am trying to match two data sets with the Vlookup function (which I was taught here!). This is what the data looks like. http://i.imgur.com/t3K2awO.jpg

Ok, so here is what it represents. From A to C is activity data that is collected through an accelerometer. A represents the time (which I turned to dd-mm-yyyy hh:mm:ss) whereas B and C represent the X and Y axis data (movement data). This data is collected 24/7

Right, so ignore F-G. On K, you will see corresponding GPS coordinate dates that were also formatted to to dd-mm-yyyy hh:mm:ss. These coordinates are taken during the day for the most part thus starting at 6:00:00 and ending  at 20:00 (last fix)...with the exception of one fix that is taken at midnight (just to see if the animals moved in the middle of the night).

Right, so, I tried the following function: =VLOOKUP(K1,$A:$C,2,FALSE)
K1 being the gps coordinate times whereas A:C represent the the activity data. You will see in the image that excel is able to pick up some of these dates (highlighted in blue is a good example) , however, not others (yellow for example). Given that no matter what, activity data was recorded 24/7, (compared to the GPS coordinates), I should be getting a result for every single date. 

I checked the dates and times, and they match. I am honestly frustrated and do not know what I am doing wrong. Any help would be greatly appreciated. Thank you 


-------------
So, this may not be tremendously helpful....

Your formula looks fine, there is nothing wrong with that. I do think its a bit weird that its a pattern though; result-result-error in your lookup columns. It makes me think there may be different values in the actual data, like every 3rd record is picking up something additional that isnt in your criteria.
-------------
You could always try the trim function on your date time data, this will ensure there aren't any superfluous spaces or strange data you can't see. The formula is just trim(cell).

Edit, spaces not zeros.
-------------
I figured it out, thank you! it was just a weird formatting bit I guess, I split up the date and time, ran a text by column, put them back together and it seemed to work. weird.  Thank you though! 
-------------
you are right. hm, I wonder if its worth splitting up the dates (for both gps and activity), text to column the dates (again) and merge them back together and then give it a shot. Yeah, it is unusual. 
-------------
thanks! I figured it out, I simply merged the date and times, ran a text by column again, put them back together and then it seemed to work. I tried the trim bit, however, it gave me a date value but didn't allow me to reformat it back to a date for some reason. 
